 Fourthly, shifting the problem from the context of
its origin â€” that of invasion and occupation â€” has led
to a problem-solving methodology that divides the
distance that separates the parties, caving in to the
demands of the more powerful party and making
success conditional upon the otherâ€™s magnanimity.
 Fifthly, the occupying Power has insisted on
discussing elements that form neither part of the
genesis of the problem nor part of its solution. The
Cyprus problem is caused by not bad community
relations but by outside intervention. Persisting,
therefore, with a constitutional arrangement, set up
primarily on the basis of ethnic origin â€” without due
respect for the overriding democratic principles of
liberty and equality of all citizens â€” insults the dignity
of those citizens and dooms the viability of any
settlement.
 We currently find ourselves engaged in an effort
to implement a process consisting of an Agreement
concluded and signed by the two communities in
Cyprus on 8 July 2006 and complemented by letters
exchanged between the leaders of the two communities
and the then Under-Secretary-General for Political
Affairs of the United Nations, Mr. Gambari, on
15 November 2006. The surprising laboriousness in the
implementation of this carefully crafted Agreement â€”
the purpose of which is to prepare the ground for
subsequent negotiation and to lead to a comprehensive
settlement of the Cyprus issue â€” is not inherent to this
particular process. We should therefore concentrate on
implementing what has been agreed. The pace can only
be determined by progress, with full-fledged
negotiations as needed. Sidelining or circumventing
stages of the process will lead, not to expediting the
solution, but to confirming the deadlock.
 So, what does the future hold for the mission of
good offices entrusted to the Secretary-General by the
Security Council? For our part, we remain fully
committed, as it is clear to us that we cannot sustain
the status quo and must insist on a meaningful and
forward-looking process that can elicit concrete results,
leading to the establishment of a bizonal, bicommunal
federation, within the true meaning of each of these
terms. The only process that can take us forward is the
one established by the 8 July agreed process I have just
outlined. This process is expected to test suggestions,
ideas and alternatives at the expert level, adequately
prepare the ground and submit to the leaders, any
points that warrant political compromise or agreement.
Although the last meeting with the Turkish Cypriot
leader did not signal the beginning of the
implementation of the Agreement as we had hoped, we
will not rescind our efforts to put the 8 July process
back on track. The element of time is very important;
however, only progress through preparing the ground
can bring us sooner to an agreed settlement. With a
view to achieving progress, I submitted to the
Secretary-General certain ideas and proposals that I
hope will contribute to this end.
 Turkey's intentions are not only manifest in the
non-resolution of the Cyprus problem after all these
years. They transpire from all its actions: the
non-normalization of its relations with Cyprus as a first
step to becoming a European partner, the non-removal
of any of its troops from Cypriot soil as a confidence-
building measure, the intensification of efforts to
project a secessionist entity in Cyprus and its
systematic violations of our sovereign air and maritime
space and of the military status quo. This was recently
confirmed by explicit statements of its leadership at the
highest political level referring to a settlement based
on two peoples, two democracies, two States and two
religions. That is an arrangement we shall never
accept.
 Over the past year, we have also witnessed
repeated attempts by the occupying Power to illegally
explore my country's natural resources and to sabotage
our sovereign right to explore and manage these
resources. It has carried out unauthorized demolitions
of Greek Cypriot houses in the areas it occupies and it
continues to destroy cultural and religious heritage. It
has intensified the large-scale illegal exploitation of
Greek Cypriot properties in the occupied part of
Cyprus, not least because this will skew the terms of a
future settlement.
 At the same time, Turkey pursues its own
strategic objectives in Cyprus at the expense of
reunification and is only guided by its own interests
and not those of Turkish Cypriots. It has ascertained
over the years that the occupied part of Cyprus would
come completely under its political, economic and
military control. We regret to note that Turkey has been
trying to involve our friends and neighbours in this ill-
conceived effort. Underpinning this strategy is the
intent to legitimize the fait accompli of the invasion
and attribute political status to its results. Such a
strategy could not have been achieved without
presenting the Turkish Cypriot community as victims,
not of Turkish aggression as really is the case, but of
Greek Cypriots for resisting this fait accompli. A prime
example of those tactics has been the ongoing
campaign to deceivingly suggest that the Turkish
Cypriot community is economically disadvantaged
because it is isolated. Considering that the per capita
income of Turkish Cypriots has doubled over the past
three years and that they now enjoy the 59th highest
per capita income in the world, one can easily detect
the political agenda behind the attempt to link their
economic development with the fate of the illegal
regime.
 For years now, we have been advocating that the
road to solving the Cyprus problem is not via the
exclusion of the inconvenient truths that underlie it or
the bypassing of principles that are, for us, the
guarantee that the settlement of the Cyprus problem
will continue to be valid and relevant in a constantly
changing world.
 Equally important, we regard the preservation of
our interests and those of Turkey in our region not as
mutually exclusive but as complementary and
interdependent. Our vision must be to bequeath to
future generations the legacy of friendship, cooperation
and good neighbourliness. We are afforded the
opportunity to avoid eternalizing this feud and we
should seize it.
"
62,2007,ECU,"Allow me  to begin my statement by recalling the commitment to
fight poverty, in force since September 2000, when 189
countries signed the Millennium Declaration, which
included the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
On that agreement we undertook to meet by 2015 some
basic goals on the path of human development.
 Today, from a Government that has declared in
Ecuador a citizens' revolution, one that is democratic,
ethical and nationalist, we wish to set out some critical
thoughts with regard to the very concept of the MDGs,
their limitations and the dangers that minimum
programmes of that nature entail, in particular with
regard to the profound social and economic inequalities
that exist on the planet.
 The first limitation of the MDGs is that they
constitute a minimum as a poverty-reducing strategy.
Our goal is to go much further than such minimums by
going into greater depth on those objectives and
incorporating others. The fact that we subscribe
exclusively to a focus on minimum needs, such as that
presented in the MDGs, carries a high risk that in
seeking to satisfy our consciences we limit the
aspirations for social change.
 I think it is fair to say that there are two
thresholds by which we can characterize the lives of
people. The first has to do with the indispensable
abilities of human beings to survive within a society
and without which life could not be called human. The
second refers to the capacities that allow each
individual to be fulfilled within that society. We are
speaking not only about subsistence, but of the right to
enjoy a life that is worthy of living.
 Ecuador believes that to have the goal of living
on $1 plus 1 cent per day in order to supposedly
overcome extreme poverty or to avoid dying
prematurely, as one might deduce from the MDGs —
does not lead to a dignified life. The development of
public policies in a country that is attempting to bring
about radical change - as is the case in Ecuador -
cannot be satisfied with those minimum objectives.
Obviously, avoiding the premature death of girls and
boys or of pregnant women is an objective that nobody
would question. However, if we base ourselves only on
that, we run the risk of agreeing that human life is
simply a process of resistance, the aim of which is to
extend someone's existence by a few more hours.
 What we propose therefore are common goals,
not only with regard to living minimums but with
regard to social maximums as well. For example, we
feel that it is possible to draw on diverse identities, to
build and restore public areas, to guarantee access to
justice and to have work which enables people to enjoy
the right to support themselves and to have time for
contemplation, artistic creation and recreation — goals
that are already contained in the national development
plan that is being implemented by the Government of
Ecuador.
 Accordingly, we renounce the idea of a
historically inevitable present to which we must
surrender by simply looking for minimums that are
clearly basic. Furthermore, to be satisfied with the
minimum also means - and that is very serious -
legitimizing the reality that we experience because the
minimum will not alter the distance and power
relationships between individuals and between
societies. Hence, we also favour the recognition of
equal dignity for all human beings. Granting some
people certain minimums must be an initial and
temporary goal and must never be considered a modus
operandi of public policy. For that means that the
“beneficiary” is placed in a position of inferiority
compared to everyone else. In other words, it means
that their dignity is not recognized as equal with
everyone else's. In fact, it is no accident that
international bureaucracies such as the World Bank
always suggest producing poverty reports, but never
consider publishing inequality reports.
 For this reason, perhaps the best way to reduce
poverty with dignity is to reduce social, economic,
territorial, environmental and cultural gaps. One of my
Government's main goals is thus to reduce inequality
in an endogenous development framework of economic
inclusion and socio-territorial cohesion, domestically
as well as within the global system. And along the
same lines, we in Ecuador are seeking to apply the rule
of human rights and universal values. On the other
hand, the long and sad neoliberal night proposed -
 from an existential perspective with its consequent
absolutism of the market - social programmes that
ended up by breaking up society into as many parts as
there are social groups.
 However, a national plan and a change in the
power relationships within a society do not mean that
all the fragments will come together. There is no claim
that, by some twist of fate, these will acquire meaning
and coherence and will assemble themselves like the
pieces of a puzzle - even if some of the pieces are
missing. It is indispensable to have a common plan that
must be constantly redesigned and whose goal must be
that we all want to be part of it.
 That is why, in Ecuador, we are creating our
national development plan in a democratic fashion. We
know that without everyone's participation in society's
basic decisions, no country can legitimize its public
decision-making and make it more efficient. We must
change a political practice employed by the traditional
sectors, with their technocrats and elites, and return
speech and action to those who should be the owners,
protagonists and beneficiaries of public policy.
 I would like furthermore to point out that the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) offer a vision
of development that is linked to consumption and a
strategy linked to processes of economic liberalization.
Our view on development is very different from that.
We understand development to be the attainment of a
good standard of living for everyone, in peace and in
harmony with nature, and with the indefinite extension
of human cultures. In that respect, we are extremely
happy to see that the Assembly has broadly debated the
devastating and unjust effects of climate change.
 Ecuador has submitted a specific and innovative
proposal to contribute to the reduction of carbon
dioxide emissions and to the preservation of
biodiversity: our Yasuni-ITT proposal. It involves a
commitment not to extract some 920 million barrels of
oil, thereby avoiding the emission of approximately
111 million tons of carbon that would come from the
burning of this fossil fuel. However, that will mean that
we will have to forgo significant investments of around
$720 million each year, a very significant amount for
the economy of Ecuador.
 We are prepared to make this huge sacrifice, but
we also ask for shared responsibility on the part of the
international community, particularly on the part of
developed countries, the planet's main predators, and
for a minimum compensation for the environmental
benefits that we are generating. That would be an
extraordinary example of global collective action,
setting aside rhetoric in favour of concrete facts and
practical actions: not only would it reduce global
warming for the benefit of the whole planet, but it
would also bring about a new way of thinking about
economics in the twenty-first century, where the
generation of value is compensated, not just the
generation of goods.
 Speaking of cultures, we were very happy to see
that the General Assembly recently adopted the
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
(resolution 61/295), which was sponsored very actively
by Ecuador. The Declaration is an instrument that had
to wait more than 20 years to be adopted and that will
be the fundamental charter for the protection of human
rights of our indigenous peoples.
 Finally, the good living that we are talking about
presupposes that genuine individual freedoms,
opportunities and potentials be enhanced. An immoral
paradox arises here: at the world level, we are
promoting the free movement of goods and capital,
looking for the highest profitability. But, on the other
hand, we are penalizing the free circulation of people
who are looking for decent jobs. That is quite simply
intolerable and absolutely unsustainable from an
ethical point of view.
 For the Government of Ecuador, there are no
illegal human beings. There is no such thing, and the
United Nations must insist on this point. There is no
such person as an illegal human being. It is not
permissible to think in that way. We are working
actively to bring about changes in the shameful
international migration policies, particularly those of
the countries of the so-called first world, without
forgetting, of course, that our greatest responsibility is
to build a country that will guarantee decent life as a
way of preventing forced exodus because of poverty
and exclusion.
 We must not be misled by those who proclaim the
end of ideologies and the end of history. Conservatives
want to make us believe that we live in the best of all
possible worlds and that we have to abandon any
attempt at change, any attempt to build our own
individual and collective identity, any attempt to build
our own history. In the face of such a miserly and self-
satisfied worldview, we say that it is possible to have
collective action that is both aware and democratic, in
order to direct our lives and organize world society in a
different way with a more human face. Our
understanding of development obliges us to recognize
one another, understand one another and appreciate one
another, so that we can move towards self-realization
and the building of a shared future. Ecuador invites the
Assembly to build this world, this dream.
"
62,2007,UKR,"Allow me, first of all,
to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to
the high post of President of the General Assembly at
its sixty-second session. On behalf of my delegation,
let me wish you, sir, every success in your important
mission and assure you of our full support.
 I would like to extend warm words of
appreciation to your predecessor, Mrs. Haya Rashed
Al-Khalifa of the Kingdom of Bahrain, whose
extensive diplomatic experience and skilful guidance
throughout the sixty-first session greatly contributed to
its success.
 Allow me also to take this opportunity to express
our support for the ambitious plans and consistent
efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, to
re-energize the Organization, strengthen its capacity
and update the United Nations system in the new
century.
 International terrorism remains one of the most
serious threats facing humankind today. Last year the
General Assembly, by adopting the United Nations
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, made a concrete
contribution to combat terrorism in a coordinated
manner at the national, regional and international
levels. We believe that the adoption of a definition of
terrorism during the current session would be a starting
point in assessing counter-terrorism measures taken by
each State.
 My country joined the anti-terrorist coalition at
its inception and has made a significant contribution to
its activities. In the last five years, all 13 international
counter-terrorism treaties have been ratified by the
Ukrainian Parliament.
 On the governmental level, we support
international anti-terrorist efforts, in particular, through
participation in the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear
Terrorism. This fall, we plan to organize in Ukraine the
third international forum on measures to counteract
acts of nuclear terrorism with the participation of civil
society, scholars and non-governmental organizations.
 Disarmament and non-proliferation are among the
most important challenges on our agenda. As a country
that voluntarily renounced its military nuclear arsenals,
Ukraine is truly disappointed that a world without
weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) remains a
distant dream.
 The international community continues to be
intimidated by the threat of WMD proliferation. The
strengthening of international legal norms and political
instrument to prevent WMD proliferation remains a top
priority. In this regard, I would like to stress the
importance of the universalization of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, as well as the
Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention.
Commemorating in 2007 the tenth anniversary of the
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), Ukraine is
ready to contribute to the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) efforts on
ensuring universal adherence to the CWC, particularly
by Middle East countries.
 With this in mind, Ukraine proposes to host next
year, together with the OPCW, an international
conference with the participation of, inter alia,
countries from the Middle East and North Africa. The
anticipated outcome of such a conference might be a
joint statement of the intention of the countries
concerned to adhere to the CWC.
 We are convinced that the only way forward is to
make simultaneous progress in the areas of both non-
proliferation and disarmament.
 We cannot but underscore our concerns over the
recent tendencies that have already caused the erosion
of the multilateral regime in the arms control and
disarmament spheres with a negative impact on mutual
trust and confidence among States. The very recent
events around the Treaty on Conventional Armed
Forces in Europe have seriously put into question the
future of this important arms control instrument,
widely recognized as the cornerstone of European
security.
 Speaking about global peace and security, I
cannot but draw attention to the problem of the
protracted conflicts in the GUAM Group area. These
conflicts create instability and insecurity and constitute
a threat to peace in the region. There is no doubt that
these conflicts endanger the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of the countries of the region, while also
hampering their economic and social development.
 We are concerned that numerous international
efforts to settle those conflicts have yielded no results.
It is crucially important that the world community
continue taking practical steps to that end. In our
opinion, the United Nations, regional organizations and
other relevant mechanisms should harmoniously
complement one another, using their comparative
advantages in peacemaking efforts.
 In this context, I would like to stress Ukraine’s
unequivocal support for a lasting settlement in Kosovo.
That objective cannot be achieved by undertaking
unilateral steps nor by steps seeking to bypass the
United Nations. A hasty settlement can only destabilize
the situation in the region and have negative
implications for the entire system of international
relations, since similar scenarios could be pursued by
separatist entities in other regions.
 Ukraine has always supported United Nations
peacekeeping efforts, both politically and practically.
We are glad to note that the recent noticeable increase
in peacekeeping activities has taken place in
accordance with the reform strategy of Peace
Operations 2010. That is especially important in light
of the ongoing and expected deployments in the future.
In this context, Ukraine supports the Secretary-General
in his efforts to strengthen the United Nations capacity
to manage and sustain peace operations.
 I would also like to draw your attention to the
fact that next year will mark the sixtieth anniversary of
United Nations peacekeeping operations. In this
regard, our delegation proposes to adopt, at the sixty-
third session of the General Assembly, a special
declaration to commemorate this event.
 United Nations credibility will always be
measured by its ability to respond adequately to
various threats in all regions of the world. No
organization is better equipped to deal with those
issues. The United Nations should lead multilateral
efforts with a view to reaching solutions in the interest
of all. But, to address them effectively, we need to take
further steps in reforming and improving existing
mechanisms of the United Nations in order to make
this Organization more relevant in the twenty-first
century.
 Unfortunately, the process of reforming the
Security Council, which is the key element within the
process of renewing the United Nations, is still only an
agenda item. We are of the view that the reform
process can only benefit from new, creative approaches
that will eventually bring about tangible results. In this
regard, I would like, once again, to stress Ukraine’s
position that one of the necessary elements of Security
Council reform should be the allocation of an
additional non-permanent seat to the Group of Eastern
European and other States, whose membership has
more than doubled since 1991.
 In today’s world, adherence to sound economic,
social and environmental policies and good governance
are the key factors in achieving sustainable
development. We share the view, expressed in a
number of statements during this session, that
sustainable development is a global challenge. Ukraine
believes that only through concerted efforts, using
universal, multilateral mechanisms as well as regional
and subregional forums, will those challenges be
adequately addressed.
 For Ukraine and other countries of the region, the
Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
has become an important element in achieving
internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
 At the same time, the forces of nature,
complemented by reckless and irresponsible human
behaviour can disrupt development plans, reshape
continents and even wipe out whole countries from the
world’s map. Science has shown, on many occasions,
that climate change, global warming and pollution may
cause sudden and dramatic consequences if not
addressed in timely, proper and effective ways. Ukraine
is firmly committed to the international agreements in
the area of climate change, including the United
Nations Framework Convention to Combat Climate
Change and the Kyoto Protocol.
 This year, we marked the twenty-first anniversary
of the Chernobyl catastrophe, the worst technological
disaster ever faced by humankind. Chernobyl severely
affected my country and the entire region. We call upon
United Nations agencies and individual donors to
continue to provide assistance to the affected States
and to work together on the implementation of the
relevant programmes in a spirit of cooperation.
 Ukraine, as a 2007 coordinator of the Chernobyl
Agenda, has proposed, together with the Republic of
Belarus and the Russian Federation, the adoption at the
sixty-second United Nations General Assembly
session, of a new resolution on strengthening
international cooperation to mitigate the consequences
of the Chernobyl disaster. In this regard, we would
welcome broad support for that initiative during this
General Assembly session.
 Ukraine is approaching the seventy-fifth
anniversary of one of the most tragic pages in its
history   the Holodomor   or Great Famine. The
artificial famine of 1932-33, perpetrated by the Soviet
totalitarian regime for the purpose of annihilating the
rural population, the backbone of the Ukrainian nation,
took the lives of millions of innocent people. For more
than seven decades this horrific crime, which ranks
among the worst catastrophes ever experienced by
humankind, still awaits adequate international
condemnation.
 We sincerely hope that the United Nations, as a
collective moral authority and effective instrument in
safeguarding human rights and fundamental freedoms,
will raise its voice and denounce the horrendous
disaster that was purposely inflicted on the Ukrainian
population in the early 1930s. By doing so, due tribute
will be paid to honour the memory of millions of our
compatriots who were outrageously deprived of their
lives. It is important to remember the past in order to
learn from it and to avoid repeating crimes against
humankind in the future.
 A decision of the General Assembly to establish
an international day of remembrance of victims of
genocide would be a worthwhile and timely
contribution to the attainment of that goal. Likewise, it
could facilitate the effective implementation of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the
Crime of Genocide, as the world approaches the
sixtieth anniversary of those instruments in 2008. We
are confident that this event deserves the adoption of a
special resolution.
 In the context of human rights, Ukraine attaches
great importance to the harmonious coexistence of
civilizations, dialogue and cooperation among various
cultures and peoples. In this regard, we support the
Alliance of Civilizations established under the
initiative of the Prime Ministers of Spain and Turkey,
and we intend to join the Group of Friends of the
Alliance in the near future.
 The problems before us are daunting. We believe
that the United Nations is the only Organization with
the worldwide membership, global reach and universal
legitimacy needed to address today’s global threats and
challenges, which no country can resolve on its own.
 I take this opportunity to reaffirm Ukraine’s
readiness to continue making an active contribution to
the further strengthening of our Organization.
"
62,2007,HUN,"Allow me first of all to
warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election as
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-second
session. I am pleased to see you, a high-ranking official
from the rather underrepresented Eastern European
Group, assuming that prestigious post of the United
Nations. In fulfilling your challenging tasks during this
session, you may be assured of the support and
cooperation of the delegation of Hungary. I would also
like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Sheikha Haya
Rashed Al-Khalifa.
 During the sixty-first session, Member States
worked hard to come to agreement on the proposals
made at the 2005 Summit meeting, but we still need to
do more to ensure that the United Nations system is
managed coherently and effectively. I believe that the
world needs, more than ever before, effective
multilateralism, which is still a key word for the future.
We should make progress on management reform,
mandate review and disarmament, and define further
concrete steps towards a renewed Security Council.
 Hungary would have preferred for the issue of
Security Council reform to have seen more progress
during the sixty-first session of the General Assembly.
The impasse was certainly not due to the lack of effort
on the part of the President of the General Assembly or
to a shortage of creative ideas. We believe that the best
solution would still be a balanced increase of seats to
better reflect the political realities of today. The
enlargement process should be combined with tangible
improvement of the Council’s working methods.
 We welcome the adoption of the new resolution
on the revitalization of the General Assembly. It is up
to each Member State to make the work of the
Assembly meaningful and to ensure that the Assembly
takes up issues of genuine concern and takes decisions
that have a real impact on the political process.
 Let me now turn to Geneva, where important
reforms have taken place as well. The Human Rights
Council has finally started its work, in an atmosphere
of high expectations. The consensus over the universal
periodic review mechanism sends a clear message that
all countries will have their human rights records
examined at regular intervals. Thus, no country will be
immune from international scrutiny. However, in order
to make it truly meaningful, we have to build a credible
and robust mechanism. Special procedures and
contributions to the review from treaty bodies and non-
governmental organizations will prove to be essential
in that regard.
 In order to better protect human rights and
fundamental freedoms, the system of special
procedures   a unique web of protection   has
continued to provide effective action for the benefit of
victims of human rights abuses. Special rapporteurs
and independent experts have continued their work,
giving a voice to the voiceless, even at times when the
Council was focusing mainly on the task of institution-
building.
 We are thoroughly convinced that both thematic
and country-specific mandates remain valid, given the
numerous human rights violations still occurring on a
daily basis. In that regard, we concur with the
Secretary-General, who has emphasized the need to
consider all situations of possible human rights
violations on an equal footing. Not having a special
rapporteur assigned to a particular country does not
absolve that country from its obligations under the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other
human rights instruments.
 I should now like to share some thoughts about
an issue dear to my country. We welcomed with great
satisfaction the recent decision of the Human Rights
Council to establish a forum on minority issues. I am
confident that the forum will provide a useful platform
for dialogue and exchange of views between
minorities, Governments and other stakeholders on
issues related to national or ethnic, linguistic and
religious minorities.
 Allow me to place special emphasis on the
empowerment of women. We firmly believe in the need
for the effective involvement of women in the
decision-making processes at both the national and the
international levels. In that regard, Hungary supports
the ongoing debate on the future of the strengthened
gender equality architecture. We welcome the steps
taken towards achieving effective gender
mainstreaming throughout the entire United Nations
system.
 On 30 March, we witnessed the signing ceremony
of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities. That new international instrument will
improve the living conditions of almost 650 million
persons with disabilities all over the world, ensuring
equal opportunities for them in all aspects of life. As
the second State party to ratify the Convention and its
Optional Protocol, we hope that they will enter into
force soon.
 Seven years ago, our Governments made a
remarkable promise to the world in adopting the
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2). Although
there has certainly been some progress in achieving its
objectives, there will be regions of the world where the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will not have
been met by 2015 if we do not intensify our efforts. In
the meantime, we must also emphasize the central role
of national policies and development strategies in
achieving the Goals. The sustainability of development
depends heavily on national ownership and leadership.
At the global level, the United Nations has a
comparative advantage in providing technical
assistance in the preparation and implementation of
national development plans. We fully support the
recommendations of the High-level Panel on United
Nations System-wide Coherence to improve the
operational effectiveness, inter-agency cooperation,
predictability and accountability of the United Nations
system.
 The Millennium Development Goals represent
the global commitment to fundamental rights, which
must be guaranteed if we genuinely seek to strengthen
our democracies. Democracy should also mean
creating the conditions for sustainable economic
development that provides people with access
through decent jobs   to opportunities to achieve full
personal development.
 We are particularly pleased that Hungary can
share its transitional experiences, both as a member of
the Advisory Board of the United Nations Democracy
Fund and through the International Centre for
Democratic Transition, which is based in Budapest and
which has a partnership agreement with the Democracy
Fund. The United Nations has a special responsibility
to address challenges related to institution-building and
to promote democracy. As Amartya Sen, the Nobel
Prize winning economist has said, countries need not
be fit for democracy; they need to become fit through
democracy.
 Hungary, as an emerging donor, is determined to
meet the obligations set out in the Millennium
Declaration and the Millennium Development Goals.
We are ready to increase our official development
assistance and to carry out our efforts in line with the
European Consensus on development and the Paris
Declaration on Aid Effectiveness. However, we are
convinced that scaling up the volume of aid in itself
will not necessarily lead to the achievement of the
Millennium Development Goals. It is also important to
emphasize the need for better complementarity,
coordination and coherence in development
cooperation.
 Having been fully integrated into the European
Union (EU) and NATO structures, we are committed to
carrying out qualitative change in the outreach of
Hungarian foreign policy. We want to make our policy
and our presence more visible in all parts of the world:
an active development cooperation and assistance
policy coupled with an increased presence in United
Nations bodies. We are resolved to attach special
attention to creating more balance in the geographical
scope of our cooperation policy in order to include
African, Asian and Latin American countries. Stepping
up our outreach efforts and developing not only
assistance activities but also economic ties with Africa
will mark the beginning of a new era in our
relationship with that continent.
 We are also ready to assume more responsibilities
in various international forums. Our ambitions are best
embodied in our application for a non-permanent seat
on the Security Council for the period 2012-2013. We
view our potential membership as an opportunity to
engage in constructive cooperation with all our
partners in order to achieve our common objectives on
the basis of shared interests and values.
 Let me now focus on some of the most urgent
foreign policy issues of our day.
 Peace and stability in the Balkan region is of
paramount importance to my country, and to Europe as
a whole. While the question of the future status of
Kosovo has drawn international attention, we are aware
that the issue of Kosovo is a challenge that needs to be
primarily tackled by Europe. Nevertheless, the United
Nations has played a pivotal role in the process to date.
Our hope is that that will continue to be the case until a
proper solution is found.
 There is no doubt that there is a significant role to
be played by the EU in facilitating a satisfactory
solution for Kosovo. One thing is certain among all the
uncertainties: the status quo is not a solution. More
than ever, the region needs stability, economic
development and inter-ethnic reconciliation. The
European Union has invested much in the region in
terms of material, political and military assistance. It
has also offered the countries of the region prospects
for joining the European Union.
 With regard to Serbia, we are convinced that
reinforcing the prospects for future membership of the
EU may facilitate finding a solution to the question of
Kosovo. Hungary therefore looks forward to a
successful outcome to the new round of negotiations
facilitated by the EU-United States-Russia Troika,
which the parties should approach in a constructive and
frank manner. We hope that the encouraging signs of
trust and a constructive approach will prevail in the
course of the entire process, and that the parties will be
able to come to an agreement endorsed by the Security
Council.
We are following with great attention the work of
the teams set up recently by Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas to negotiate core issues related to a permanent
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We welcome
the initiative of the President of the United States to
convene an international conference in November.
 Hungary is firmly committed to the
reconstruction of Afghanistan. As a State member of
the North Atlantic alliance, we have been involved in
the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
since 2003. On 1 October 2006, we took over the
leadership of the Provincial Reconstruction Team in
Baghlan province. I am proud of the successful work
done by Hungary’s military contingent and by
Hungarian teams of aid workers. Moreover, I can
confirm our future commitment in Afghanistan, which
enjoys broad political consensus among all the parties
represented in the Hungarian parliament. Nevertheless,
we must not forget that the primary responsibility for
the stabilization and development of Afghanistan lies
with the Afghan people themselves. We are concerned
about the security situation and the attacks carried out
by Taliban and anti-Government forces, and we firmly
condemn all hostage-taking actions. Drug production
and trafficking continue to be a major source of
instability, and we note the increase in opium
production with grave concern. We encourage the
Afghan Government, working in close cooperation
with the international community and in particular with
its regional partners, to take effective measures to
stabilize the whole region.
 The stabilization of Iraq is one of the major
challenges in the Middle East. We appreciate the
results that have been achieved so far in the course of
the country’s democratic transformation. However, the
Iraqi political class needs to overcome the present state
of deep division and start to walk down the path of
reconciliation and cooperation in order to bring peace
and stability to the country. As a precondition for a
long-lasting settlement of the conflict, the international
community must enable Iraqi leaders to assume
ownership and govern their country in an independent
way.
 Hungary is very concerned about the acts of
violence perpetrated by the security forces of the
Burma/Myanmar Government. We are committed to
respecting human rights and democracy, and we
therefore strongly condemn the brutal physical attacks
against peaceful demonstrators. I reiterate our previous
call on the Government of Burma/Myanmar to fully
respect human rights and the norms of democracy, in
particular the rights to peaceful assembly and to the
free expression of opinions.
 Due to one of the most worrisome conflicts on
the African continent   the one raging in Darfur
the situation in the Sudan and nearby countries is still
unpredictable and explosive. Hungary welcomes the
renewed momentum in the efforts to resolve the Darfur
conflict, in particular the agreement reached on the
deployment of the African Union-United Nations
hybrid force and the subsequent adoption of Security
Council resolution 1769 (2007). We consider it
essential that the Hybrid Operation be launched, and
that troops be fully deployed in the full number
authorized, as soon as possible. I would like to
commend Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on having
made resolving the Darfur conflict a priority, as well as
on his visit to the Sudan. It is in that context that I
reaffirm our support for the peacebuilding and
peacekeeping efforts of the United Nations.
 Hungary welcomes the fact that the
Peacebuilding Commission has started its work and has
met in a country-specific format to consider the cases
of Burundi and Sierra Leone. We look forward to the
first report on its work. We consider the Commission to
be an important instrument to enhance the capabilities
of the United Nations to support countries emerging
from conflict.
 We are fully aware of the need to strengthen the
capacity of the United Nations to mount and sustain
complex and multidimensional peacekeeping
operations. Hungary commends the efforts made by the
Secretary-General to achieve that purpose and
welcomes the General Assembly’s decision to establish
the Department of Field Support. My country’s track
record in the field of peacekeeping demonstrates that
we are willing to actively support the Security
Council’s decisions. Hungarian military and police
personnel are present in many of the peacekeeping
missions of the United Nations, namely, in Cyprus,
Georgia, Kosovo, Lebanon and Western Sahara.
 My recent participation at the fifty-first General
Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) and my talks with Director General Mohamed
ElBaradei reaffirmed my conviction that questions
relating to nuclear safety and non-proliferation should
remain high on our agenda.
 Hungary shares the concerns of the international
community over Iran’s nuclear programme. We deplore
Iran’s failure to take the steps required by the IAEA
Board of Governors and by Security Council
resolutions, steps necessary to re-establish
international confidence in the peaceful nature of its
nuclear programme. We welcomed the adoption of
Security Council resolutions 1737 (2006) and 1747
(2007), and we fully comply with the obligations set
forth therein. We hope that Iran will soon realize that a
diplomatic and negotiated solution is possible and that
compliance has many benefits.
 Hungary continues to support the process aimed
at achieving the denuclearization of the Korean
peninsula in a peaceful manner and welcomes the first
promising results of the Six-Party Talks. Developments
related to the North Korean nuclear issue have
underscored the importance of the early entry into
force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
 Hungary supports all multilateral, regional and
bilateral efforts that contribute in an effective manner
to our common goal of achieving disarmament and
curbing the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
Such efforts must also aim at upholding and
strengthening key international treaties and export
control regimes. In that context, one of the most
important challenges is to ensure compliance with the
Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Moreover, Hungary welcomes the entry into force of
the International Convention for the Suppression of
Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which we ratified in April.
 An urgent issue in the field of counter-terrorism
is the full and earliest possible implementation of the
United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. In
that regard, the main responsibility lies with Member
States, which should all also actively participate in the
upcoming implementation review. The conclusion of a
comprehensive convention on international terrorism
remains another high priority for Hungary.
 Fifteen years after the United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development, the Rio Summit, it
is evident that, at the current pace, our efforts will not
be sufficient to halt the emerging global threats, in
particular that of climate change. The European Union
has a clear position in that regard, and it has proposed
to speed up the drafting of a new global compact. As a
member of the EU, Hungary fully agrees with the
urgency of the matter. We hope that the ongoing
deliberations on the future of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change and of the
Kyoto Protocol will lead to concrete results within two
years. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome
the efforts made by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to
raise awareness about climate change in the
international community.
 On behalf of my country, I would like to reiterate
Hungary’s commitment to upholding the rule of
international law, to giving priority to effective
multilateralism, to spreading the culture of cooperation
and the peaceful settlement of international disputes,
and to making every effort to preserve a sustainable
environment for future generations.
 In conclusion, Hungary is strongly committed to
working with you, Mr. President, during the sixty-
second session of the General Assembly to achieve the
objectives set out in the 2005 World Summit Outcome.
"
62,2007,BHR,"It is my pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, upon your
election as President of the Assembly at this session.
There is no doubt that your expertise and your
knowledge of international affairs will ensure anther
successful session this year and will contribute to
fulfilling the aspirations of our peoples for the United
Nations.
 I take this opportunity to express my deepest
thanks and appreciation to our dear sister, Her
Excellency Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa, President
of the General Assembly at its sixty-first session, and
to commend her for the way in which she so ably and
wisely guided the work of the Assembly. As a result,
serious ideas were put forward that yielded tangible
results for the development of the Organization and the
revitalization of its role. In that respect, we want to
express our appreciation to all delegations that
displayed a spirit of cooperation with her during her
presidency.
 I have the pleasure also to thank His Excellency
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his ongoing efforts
to strengthen and develop the role of the United
Nations. We are confident that the Secretary-General’s
long experience as an able diplomat will enable him to
undertake further efforts to strengthen the effectiveness
of our international Organization.
 In our joint endeavours to achieve world peace,
prosperity and justice, we must address the challenges
and dangers confronting our world today from a
standpoint of faith in our one human destiny. We
should realize that international security is based on
joint efforts to guarantee regional security and the
stability of States. At the same time, international
peace requires respect for international legitimacy, the
rule of law and justice. Since comprehensive
development is a national and international
requirement, it is important that we collectively and
seriously face threats regardless of their forms or
manifestations, such as conflict, war, nuclear
proliferation, terrorism, environment disaster, poverty,
backwardness and extremism, in accordance with the
principles and purposes of the Charter of the United
Nations and the resolutions and decisions adopted by
the General Assembly, including the United Nations
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2).
 The resolution containing the Millennium
Declaration was a unique and pioneering endeavour
which embodied a consensus among the world leaders
who set out the goals we must reach in this new
millennium. In this respect, the Kingdom of Bahrain is
proud, by the grace of God, to have witnessed
comprehensive political developments in its
democratic march forward, under the leadership of His
Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, King of
Bahrain, where free and fair elections were held with
broad participation.
 Meanwhile, its comprehensive development
efforts were crowned by the United Nations presenting
the 2006 Special Citation of the United Nations Human
Settlements Programme Scroll of Honour Award to His
Highness Shaikh Khalifa bin Salman Al-Khalifa, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain. This reflected
international appreciation for the developments that
continue to be witnessed by the Kingdom, especially in
the field of urban development.
 Social and economic achievements, under the
patronage also of His Highness Shaikh Salman bin
Hamad Al-Khalifa, Crown Prince and Commander-in-
Chief of the Bahrain Defence Force, have continued
unabated. They are based on strategies and policies
designed to ensure the welfare of all citizens by
encouraging investment, strengthening the national
human rights machinery, reforming the labour market
and developing the education sector.
 In the decades since the establishment of the
United Nations, our world has witnessed both unipolar
and bipolar world orders. Worldwide events and the
ensuing results proved that such orders were not
enough to guarantee security, peace, stability and
prosperity in the world. Therefore, the time is now
right to enable everybody to participate effectively in a
universal system based on a just multilateralism that
guarantees collective work towards achieving common
goals.
 We, as the United Nations, pledged in the
Charter, in the name of our peoples to save succeeding
generations from the scourge of war and to reaffirm
faith in fundamental human rights. That calls upon the
international community promptly and effectively to
address threats to international peace and security. At
the forefront of those threats are the ongoing regional
issues that the Middle East faces on various fronts, the
most important of which is the situation in the
Palestinian and other occupied Arab territories.
 In this respect, we welcome the initiative of
President George Bush of the United States to convene
an international conference on Middle East peace this
year. We hope that this will mark the beginning of a
new stage in dealing with the core issue of the Arab-
Israeli conflict in a just and equitable manner, putting
an end to the suffering of the Palestinian people and to
the occupation since 1967 of the Palestinian territories,
the Syrian Golan and other occupied Arab territories in
sisterly Lebanon. It should also lead to the
establishment of an independent, contiguous and viable
Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its capital. Such a
State should also be able to engage in development and
to live in peace and stability with all States in the
region, including Israel, in accordance with the Arab
Peace Initiative, United Nations resolutions and other
relevant international agreements and terms of
reference.
 The second front is represented by the events in
brotherly Iraq, whose people suffer from continued
insecurity and instability as a result of the ceaseless
waves of violence and the killing of innocent people. It
is our view that the responsibility for breaking out of
this vicious circle and achieving national reconciliation
and stability lies primarily with the Iraqi people and
their political leadership. To enable Iraq to do that,
there must be no interference in Iraq’s internal affairs,
and its borders must be fully respected. We stress here
how important it is for neighbouring States, the Arab
League and the United Nations to continue to support
the legitimate Iraqi Government and its efforts to
maintain security and stability in Iraq and to preserve
its Arab and Islamic identity.
 It seems clear that the attainment of stability in
Lebanon is closely bound to free national
reconciliation, and to strengthened national, Arab and
international efforts and support for Lebanon’s
legitimacy, with a view to preserving its security,
safety and stability. Lebanon is an integral part of the
system of regional peace and security in the Middle
East and as such should be supported. We express our
regret at the assassinations of many politicians,
officials and innocent people in Lebanon. We hope that
Lebanon will overcome the current crisis so that its
people can live in security and peace.
 The stability and unity of the Sudan are
fundamental pillars of the political, economic and
social unity of Africa. We commend the decision of the
brotherly Sudan to agree to the deployment of a United
Nations-African Union hybrid force in Darfur. In that
context, we hope that the parties to the conflict in the
Sudan will come together for the sake of their country
and its prosperity.
The Kingdom of Bahrain recently joined the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), because
of its belief in the Agency’s important role in
strengthening nuclear non-proliferation. In order to
avoid a nuclear arms race in the Middle East, the
Kingdom of Bahrain underlines the importance of
freeing the region from nuclear weapons. It therefore
urges the parties concerned, including the Islamic
Republic of Iran, to be more transparent and to
cooperate fully with the terms of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) so as to
build tranquillity and peace of mind among
neighbouring States in the Gulf. The Kingdom of
Bahrain reaffirms the right of all States to utilize
nuclear power for peaceful purposes. It also demands
that Israel place all its nuclear facilities under the
comprehensive safeguards regime of the IAEA and
become a party to the NPT in order to promote the
Treaty’s universality.
 In order to promote friendly relations and
cooperation between members of the Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC) and the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms the right of the brotherly
United Arab Emirates to recover its three occupied
islands. It hopes that the two countries will increase
their efforts and their contacts to resolve this issue
either through direct negotiation or by referring it to
the International Court of Justice.
 Global climate change has become one of the
most dangerous challenges threatening the world and
its inhabitants. Climate change not only has an impact
on the environment, but also severely affects the
world’s economic and social order and hinders
development. We therefore call upon all States to
cooperate in order to identify solutions and ways to
deal with this phenomenon. Here I wish to commend
the high-level event on climate change, convened by
the Secretary-General on 24 September 2007 in New
York, on the theme “The future in our hands:
Addressing the leadership challenge of climate
change”.
 Our faith in a single human destiny requires us to
consolidate a culture of peace, brotherhood and
dialogue among all nations and peoples and to abandon
phenomena of hatred, discrimination and division —
including what has been dubbed Islamophobia —
which some are promoting to incite upheaval and
hatred between peoples in order to serve their own
narrow political agendas and interests. Those
individuals forget that Islam is a monotheistic religion
and that it stresses brotherhood, love, coexistence and
tolerance. We hope in this context that the High-level
Dialogue to be held by the General Assembly on 4 and
5 October will contribute to reinforcing the values of
tolerance, understanding and respect for religions and
cultures.
 The Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms the
importance of joint efforts towards a new international
environment, in which we can achieve our hope and
aspiration to live in peace, security and stability in a
world in which mankind will also live in respect,
dignity and humanity; a world in which nations will
achieve development and build prosperity and well-
being; a world that will accept the cultures of others in
peaceful coexistence, free from hatred and intolerance;
and a world that believes in the unity of human destiny
and will work to attain security, prosperity, justice and
peace for humankind.
"
62,2007,ZMB,"Allow me at the outset
to convey my warm congratulations to Mr. Srgjan
Kerim on his election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its sixty-second session. My delegation is
confident that with his immense wealth of experience,
he will steer the session very successfully. Zambia
assures him of its total support during his tenure of
office.
 Let me, at this point, pay tribute to Mr. Kurt
Waldheim, the fourth Secretary-General of the United
Nations, and later President of Austria, who died on
14 June 2007. To us, he was a great diplomat who
made Africa one of his priorities, especially at the
height of the liberation struggle in Southern Africa.
 May I take this opportunity to thank Her
Excellency Sheikha Rashed Al Khalifa of Bahrain for
having presided over the affairs of the sixty-first
session in an exemplary manner. Among her
accomplishments was the carrying forward of the
United Nations reforms called for at the 2005 World
Summit. It was gratifying to have a lady preside over
the highest office of the General Assembly after almost
three decades of male dominance. I hope that this
organ will not again take that long to have an excellent
woman as President.
 Let me now congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-moon of the
Republic of Korea on his election as the eighth
Secretary-General of the United Nations. I am
confident that he will build upon the strong foundation
that was laid by his predecessor, Kofi Annan of Ghana,
to whom I wish to pay tribute for the manner in which
he steered the Organization during his tenure in office.
He made Africa proud, and I wish him success in his
current and future endeavours.
 Our world today presents many challenges. These
include abject poverty for the majority of the world’s
inhabitants, underdevelopment, conflict, human
trafficking, climate change, terrorism, violations of
human rights, the HIV/AIDS pandemic and gender
inequality. While some of these challenges have only
recently emerged, others have been with us from time
immemorial. These challenges cannot be entirely
resolved within national boundaries or at the regional
level. They can be resolved only at the multilateral
level, with all the players carrying out their roles
diligently. For that reason, Zambia supports a strong
and coherent United Nations. We agree with the
recommendation of the High-level Panel on United
Nations System-wide Coherence that the United
Nations urgently needs more coherence and synergy.
That will enable it to perform as one and to use its
unique universality, neutrality and capacity to operate
efficiently.
 Furthermore, Zambia supports the ongoing
reforms of the United Nations. In particular, we
welcome the mandate given to the Economic and
Social Council to make it more effective in executing
its duties, which include formulating policy
recommendations on international and social issues, as
well as coordinating activities of specialized agencies
in the economic, social and related fields. In that
regard, collaboration of the United Nations with the
international financial institutions and the World Trade
Organization should be further enhanced; we welcome
the work going on in this area.
 This brings me to another issue: reform of the
Security Council. This matter has remained unresolved
for more than a decade. United Nations reform cannot
be complete without meaningful reform of the Security
Council. Any new proposals to reform that vital organ
should seriously consider Africa’s call to have two
permanent seats with full veto power. Africa is aware
that the veto is an undemocratic instrument and would
prefer to do away with it altogether. However, as long
as others insist on keeping the veto, Africa should have
it as well. The status quo is unacceptable. It is my hope
that during Mr. Kerim’s tenure of office, this aspect of
the reform process will be concluded successfully.
 The issue of climate change is very important to
the current and future inhabitants of our planet. It is
therefore fitting that one theme of this session is
responding to climate change. I commend the
Secretary-General for organizing the 24 September
2007 high-level event on this matter. Indeed, the
effects of climate change are being felt mostly by the
developing countries. For instance, Southern Africa is
experiencing critical food shortages due to torrential
rains in some areas and severe drought in other parts of
the region.
 The problem of climate change is a global issue
requiring global action within the multilateral context
of the United Nations. As a signatory to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
and the Kyoto Protocol, Zambia has already taken
several measures to implement those international
instruments. In that regard, we submitted our first
national communication report in 2004. We have also
taken deliberate steps to create public awareness about
the problem of climate change so that our people can
devise appropriate local interventions.
 Regarding measures aimed at adapting to climate
change, Zambia has just finished formulating its
National Adaptation Programme of Action. The
programme will help us identify the most vulnerable
sectors of our economy, as well as adaptation activities
required to alleviate the adverse effects of climate
change. For this reason, we call upon the international
community to ensure that the Adaptation Fund under
the Climate Change Convention, which has taken
rather long to establish, is made operational.
 While placing emphasis on adaptation, we also
pledge to reduce emissions from industrial and other
sources. We call upon industrialized countries, which
have a history of producing these emissions, to take
serious steps to reduce them. We believe that the
situation is now serious and that narrow national
interests in this matter must be discarded forthwith.
 As a developing country, Zambia needs assistance
to enhance its capacity in key adaptive areas, such as
scientific research, early warning and rapid response,
to address the adverse effects of climate change.
Accordingly, Zambia calls for the speedy development
and transfer of appropriate technologies to help us cope
with the negative impacts of climate change, as well as
to put us on a low-carbon path to economic growth. We
also call for a more comprehensive institutional
framework for international environmental governance.
 In 2000, the developing world embraced the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as a
comprehensive strategy to move our countries out of
economic and social decline and better integrate us into
the global economy. Halfway through the
implementation period, many countries are far from
attaining most of the Goals. That is so in spite of the
improved economic performance recorded by some
developing countries following recent debt relief
initiatives, coupled with sustained prudent economic
management.
 To illustrate the point, in Zambia the economy
grew by 6.2 per cent last year, and inflation declined to
a single digit level for the first time in 30 years. Those
economic gains, however, have not translated into a
significant decline in the incidence of poverty, which
stands at 68 per cent. Zambia’s development efforts are
further compromised by the HIV/AIDS pandemic and,
now, the adverse effects of climate change.
 With regard to the HIV/AIDS pandemic, my
Government has declared it to be a national crisis,
requiring sustained mitigation and preventive
measures. I would like to take this opportunity to thank
all our cooperating partners for their support to Zambia
in the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and
malaria.
 Despite these challenges, Zambia, for its part, has
made steady progress and is likely to meet most of the
MDGs by 2015. The Goals most likely not to be
attained by 2015 are: reducing by three quarters the
maternal mortality ratio, integrating the principles of
sustainable development into the country’s policies and
programmes and reversing the loss of environmental
resources. Our goal now is to translate the economic
achievements into tangible improvements in the quality
of life of the Zambian people. That goal is enshrined in
Zambia’s Vision 2030, which is aimed at raising the
country to middle-income status, significantly reducing
hunger and poverty and fostering a competitive and
outward-oriented economy.
 But that goal will remain elusive if our
cooperating partners do not fulfil their commitments.
Indeed, it is saddening to note that total official
development assistance declined in real terms by 5.1
per cent between 2005 and 2006, and only five donor
countries have met or exceeded the 0.7 per cent target.
I urge the cooperating partners to fulfil their
commitments. Furthermore, while Zambia welcomes
the discussions and progress made on aid effectiveness
following the Paris Declaration, we call for official
development assistance to be delivered in a more
efficient manner, in accordance with the Declaration.
 Aid cannot be effective unless corruption is
uprooted. My Government has, therefore, declared war
against that social vice. Accordingly, I take this
opportunity to urge the international community to
desist from providing safe havens for leaders who
plunder national resources. Such ill-gotten wealth
should be returned to the countries from where it was
misappropriated so that it can be used to fight poverty.
 Zambia condemns international terrorism in all
its forms and manifestations. For this reason, we call
upon members of the international community to
refrain from harbouring terrorists. Zambia, for its part,
supports the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear
Terrorism.
 Through regional bodies, such as the Southern
African Development Community (SADC), developing
countries enhance their ability to cooperate and also
jointly negotiate for better access to developed
countries’ markets. Consequently, during Zambia’s
current chairmanship of SADC, we shall continue to
consolidate the formation of the SADC free trade area
by 2008 as a prerequisite to the Regional Customs
Union. In addition, Zambia will, on behalf of SADC,
seek funding to develop an adequate regional
transboundary infrastructure in support of
much-needed connectivity in areas such as water,
transport, energy, communications and information
technology.
 Many regions, including Africa, have been
dogged by conflict. This has adversely affected the
countries’ potential to participate in the global
economic arena. In the quest for peace in our
subregion, SADC has launched a stand-by brigade,
which will have the capacity for peace support
operations. It is our hope that the international
community will render necessary support to the
brigade to enable it to fulfil its mandate.
 Better still, SADC and Zambia value the tenets of
democracy, political stability and integrated economic
development as the ultimate sound basis for peace and
stability. SADC will, therefore, continue to promote
the conducting of free and fair elections in the region.
 Mr. Berdymukhammedov (Turkmenistan), Vice-
President, took the Chair
 In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm, with regard to
the theme of this session, Zambia’s commitment to
cooperate with the international community in
addressing the problem of climate change. It is my
sincere hope that all of us will play our full part,
according to our abilities to deal with this serious
global challenge. To that end, we should not remain
indecisive and indifferent to this serious issue. Neither
should we miss the opportunity to do what we can to
make the world a better place to live in.
"
62,2007,SVN,"Mr. President,
let me first express my gratitude to your predecessor,
Her Excellency Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa, for
her leadership of the General Assembly. To you, Sir, on
behalf of Slovenia, I assure full support for your
leadership. We also look forward to cooperating with
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
 An important part of the sixty-second session of
the General Assembly will coincide with a period of
increased international responsibility for Slovenia. We
will do our best to make good use of this opportunity
and to benefit not only Europe, but the international
community as a whole. The United Nations will be at
the heart of our efforts. This Organization still
represents humankind in its best light.
 The discussions this week have proved that the
global community has identified the challenges brought
about by the human impact on the environment. The
will to find solutions under United Nations auspices
was clearly expressed. The sheer dimension and
complexity of the issue require that this Organization
have primacy.
 Today, environmental changes are occurring all
over the world. Slovenia pins great hopes on a regional
approach in the search for solutions. At the global
level, we support the principle of common, but
different, responsibilities. A common approach is
necessary because of the considerable impact of
climate change, including on global security and
stability.
 Country-specific solutions should allow space for
realizing development potential. Slovenia is very
serious about its commitments within the European
framework. The European Union has showed the will
and ability to take initiative. We hope that such
examples will set the dominant tone of the overall
discussion through the new framework for the period
after 2012.
 Slovenia welcomes the progress made so far in
the United Nations reform process and will continue to
work towards the more responsive, effective and
representative United Nations.
 The role of the United Nations in maintaining
peace and security is indispensable. This year, more
than 10 per cent of the members of the Slovenian
armed forces participated in missions abroad under the
mandate of the Security Council. The majority of them
helped to strengthen peace and stability in South-
Eastern Europe, and also in Afghanistan, Lebanon and
Iraq.
 In the last decade and a half, the international
community has dedicated considerable human and
financial resources to the region of the Balkans. The
contribution is great; therefore the dividends of peace
for the whole region should not be wasted at the end of
the stabilization process. We need to pursue solutions
to secure these dividends; then they should be further
invested in the common European project.
 The international community must, within the
framework of the United Nations, complete the
establishment of mechanisms aimed at meeting the
challenges of the twenty-first century. Finalizing a
comprehensive United Nations convention on
international terrorism must continue to be a key
priority. Another challenge remains concrete
application of the concept of the responsibility to
protect.
 Even the most determined efforts to achieve
global security have little chance for lasting success
under conditions of inequality. Therefore, achieving the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is of
paramount importance. Creating equal opportunities
for the disadvantaged and demonstrating solidarity
with them are sustainable investments in peace. It is
only when both developed and developing countries
choose to make such investments that the benefits of
the world’s current economic growth will be more
fairly distributed.
 Slovenia was very pleased to become a member
of the Human Rights Council. The trust that has been
placed in us will be honoured through our active and
open efforts to achieve the implementation of human
rights standards. We will continue to support the policy
of global abolition of the death penalty.
 Slovenia attaches great importance to the concept
of human security, which is in accordance with the
pillars of the United Nations: development, security
and human rights. We accord special attention to
children: the youngest victims of violence, poverty and
deadly pandemics are also the most powerless.
Therefore, it remains true that a man never stands so
tall as when he kneels to help a child.
 In that respect, Slovenia takes particular pride in
its full cooperation with the non-governmental sector.
The Together Foundation, which is concerned with the
psychosocial well-being of children in societies
affected by armed conflict, and the Slovenian
International Trust Fund for Demining and Mine
Victims Assistance in Bosnia and Herzegovina were
founded as a result of Slovenia’s initiatives aimed at
the wider region.
 Slovenia actively participates in initiatives on
intercultural dialogue, devoting special attention to the
Mediterranean area. We hope to see the early
establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university,
which would be a Slovenian contribution to raising
awareness about the need for peaceful coexistence
among those with different cultures and world views.
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt, one of the chief
architects of the United Nations, predicted at the time
of the establishment of the Organization that change
would be a regular feature of its development. Indeed,
the United Nations continues to be built today. The
great hopes of humanity depend on our joint efforts,
which will never be completed. Therefore, it is my
hope that the sixty-second session of the General
Assembly will be crowned with success.
"
62,2007,ARG,"Allow
me at the outset to express my sincerest
congratulations to Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his assumption
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second session. Argentina welcomes the new
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and expresses its
support for his efforts at the head of the United
Nations.
 As in previous years, we have come to the
General Assembly with the aim of revitalizing this
world body and with the firm belief that this will
ensure the effectiveness of international law in settling
disputes, thus successfully dealing with any threats to
peace.
 The world is facing problems. The only hope we
have of resolving them lies in respect for
multilateralism, support for local customs, observance
of international norms and conventions by all
countries, and, of course, the full realization of human
rights.
 For each individual country, and for the world as
a whole, peace will be possible only if we promote
equality and work to combat poverty and
marginalization. The world cannot and must not be a
place where violations of human rights are everywhere.
Peaceful coexistence is strengthened and maintained
through true solidarity between nations based upon a
concept of humanity that goes beyond the purely
military or the predominantly unilateral.
 Our international policy is based on the values of
representative democracy, sovereignty of the people,
respect for fundamental human rights, and the active
upholding of international peace and security. Those
principles are shared by the vast majority of the
Argentine people. They help to focus the Government’s
activities and are reflected in the decisions taken by the
Argentine Republic at the international level.
 We firmly support the construction of more just
and equitable societies that distribute more equitably
the benefits of economic growth. We know that each
country must have the right to seek out its own
development model, without external pressure.
 The past few years have been very testing for us.
Considerable efforts have been made to rescue a nation
that barely five years ago was in the throes of an
unprecedented social and economic crisis. At the time,
many people thought that recovery might be
impossible. But day by day, with a great deal of effort
and humility, we revived production in a country
burdened by a foreign debt that threatened our future
with its conditions and constraints.
 Argentina — a developing country which once
demonstrated that it is truly possible to climb the social
ladder; a country of immigrants where workers once
succeeded in sending their children to university; a
country once without illiteracy and having almost
banished child mortality — had been reduced to a
country of workers demoralized by unemployment,
children begging in the streets instead of going to
school, and the elderly living off miniscule pensions
and becoming dependent on their children and
grandchildren.
 Our country’s coffers had been emptied owing to
the rigid application of the rules of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). As a corollary, there was
violence in the streets, and Argentina experienced an
institutional crisis, with presidents lasting only days.
For the first time, Argentina sent off its own children
into an unprecedented economic exile.
 Today the Argentine State has won its autonomy
and itself administers the variables of its
macroeconomy as best it can in the current
international environment. It pursues a sound,
disciplined and predictable economic policy within a
stable and democratic framework.
 Our capacity for revitalization has allowed us,
even without receiving funding, to begin cancelling our
net debt with international organizations. We have even
paid off in advance all of our debt with the IMF — an
IMF that supported and promoted Governments that
were self-supporting, adjusting and patching up their
budgets, but at the cost of increasing the poverty of
their people, promoting deindustrialization and
irresponsibly plunging the country into debt.
 Faced with the incredulous criticism of the
promoters of orthodox prescriptions, Argentina, thanks
to cautious monetary policies, disciplined public
expenditures and a healthy budget surplus that enabled
it to face or mitigate potential foreign crises, has
reduced the debt and registered an annual growth rate
of 9 per cent during the past five years. This was the
strongest uninterrupted economic expansion of any in
the past 100 years.
 Today we represent the empirical proof that there
is life after the Fund and also the certitude that other
paths can lead to development and integration. We
serve as a reminder of the unreliability of models that
claim to be universally valid and the revindication of
the right of countries to choose their own path,
benefiting from international experience while
prioritizing their national interests and circumstances
above any other interest. Our case provides proof that
the international economic architecture must be
reformed, in particular that of IMF. The Fund is an
exponent of an old world order that is no longer valid.
Our case demonstrates the need for change in the
multilateral financial institutions so that they can
cooperate in the development of the less-well-endowed
nations and help to fight poverty and generate true
options for progress.
 We are thinking, not of economic growth as
defined by economic experts or historians, but of
growth that has a strong social component and an
emphasis on equity, where citizens are the focus of the
results. Whereas one fourth of the labour force
experienced the humiliation of being unemployed,
unemployment has been reduced to 7.8 per cent since
we have taken office. We are speaking, not about just
any sort of work, but about appropriate and decent
work of the kind we advocated at the most recent
summit meeting of the Americas, which was held in
our country.
 Thanks to a productive policy that generates
added value and, in addition, appeals to private
enterprises to show social responsibility, we are
reindustrializing Argentina. The economic indicators
posted by our country today would have been
impossible were it not for the complementarity of
action between the State and the private sector.
 Our sales to all destinations have doubled over
the past four years, with a 16 per cent annual growth
rate. Investments have improved substantially: gross
domestic fixed investment has increased for the past 17
consecutive quarters; the ratio of investment to GDP is
between 20 and 23 per cent — in stark contrast to the
level of 2002 when it was hardly more than 11 per
cent.
 When faced with that crisis almost five years ago,
we felt compelled to maintain essential assistance
policies for the most vulnerable segments of our
population. We do not regret those policies, and today
we can state that the true solution to the serious social
problems affecting our country, and many others
around the world, lies in providing jobs, health care
and education.
 In the area of health, Argentina has launched a
national policy that includes prescriptions for generic
drugs and the provision of essential medications free of
charge. It also strengthens maternity and child
programmes and everything that relates to primary
health care, in line with the goals of equity and
protection. This has enabled us to compensate in part
for the disastrous state of the public health sector a
short time ago.
 Of course, education is an essential element for
renewing the social and moral fabric of the nation,
even though the time horizon for its effects to be felt is
longer than those of other public policies. In order to
remedy the tragic situation that signalled the
breakdown of society and the failure on the part of the
State to protect those who were most vulnerable, a new
law on national education was passed. It will again
focus on ensuring equality of opportunity through
guaranteed access to a quality education throughout the
territory that is linked to the labour market and
includes excellent training for teachers. Under the new
law, a deadline of 2010 has been set, by which time
6 per cent of the gross national product will be used to
finance education.
 In this context of steady recovery, Argentina’s
foreign policy is being strengthened and expanded,
with a clear and decisive commitment to the national
interest. Regional integration is a priority. Over the
past two decades, through the Common Market of the
South (MERCOSUR), Argentina has strengthened its
commercial ties with the countries of the region. But
its trade relations go far beyond the region. In that
sense, multilateral negotiations within the World Trade
Organization are of particular importance because the
liberalization of our agricultural sector — in which our
country has clear competitive advantages — depends
on them, as does the adequate flexibility we need to
carry out our industrial policies.
 More equitable and fairer rules in international
trade are of great importance to Argentina. We
therefore participate actively in multilateral economic
negotiations with the firm goal of achieving equity in
the norms that govern world trade and of reversing the
discrimination erected against our main products
through tariff barriers and other trade-distorting
instruments imposed by the developed countries.
 Argentina will be present in all multilateral
forums, where we will participate to ensure more
equitable and democratic rules. Multilateralism is the
most effective instrument for winning the battle against
hunger, poverty, exclusion and environmental
degradation.
 Everything I have said here is both cause and
consequence of institutional stability and respect for
the rule of law. The three pillars of the Argentine State
are making decisions to combat impunity and preserve
memory, truth, and justice. We have begun bringing to
justice those guilty of serious human rights violators.
Those who imagined themselves having escaped with
impunity are fiercely resisting justice and, in an
attempt to intimidate witnesses, have caused the
disappearance of one witness, Julio Lopez. They have
thereby sent a dark message to a society that is seeking
the truth about the crimes against humanity which they
committed, and that condemns such acts.
 Unconditional respect for human rights is our
new national paradigm. In the past, we were known
throughout the world for violations of those rights;
today, as we strive to find the truth and to punish the
guilty, we also seek to defend those rights worldwide.
 Argentina, the Mothers and Grandmothers of the
Plaza de Mayo in the monumental dignity of their
struggle, and the Argentine people have personally
suffered under the inefficiency of a broken multilateral
human rights system. Their sole comfort were the very
precious humanitarian gestures of individuals,
organizations and countries. While people were being
kidnapped, tortured and killed in my country, the
mechanisms established precisely to condemn and
prevent such horrors remained silent. It is in their
memory, so that this will never happen again, that we
support the new Human Rights Council and hope that it
will live up to the expectations of the international
community.
 My Government has endorsed instruments of
great importance, including the International
Convention for the Protection of All Persons from
Enforced Disappearance, adopted by this Assembly on
20 December 2006, which we signed in Paris on
6 February. That instrument, along with the Convention
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the
Optional Protocol of the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against
Women, gives continuity and concrete form to a policy
that ascribes a central role to the promotion of human
rights.
 In our public policy, we now focus on
environmental protection, but we know that there will
be no viable solution without cooperation among all
the countries of the world, the industrialized countries
in particular, because the nature of the problem is of a
global scale.
 The issue of climate change should be of concern
to all Governments, because no corner of the planet is
unaffected by changes that have been identified as due
to human activity. The Secretary-General’s convening
of yesterday’s High-level Meeting was a timely
manifestation of the urgent need to strengthen
international cooperation as an effective and adequate
response to protect the environment and prevent the
unacceptable exportation of pollutants to the
developing countries.
 One after the other, various diplomatic efforts to
halt the violence in the Middle East once and for all
have failed, but we cannot merely throw up our hands.
No military solution will lead to peace and the
tranquillity that all the peoples of the region so
desperately call for. The invasion of Iraq, which we
rejected at the time it occurred, is the tragic and painful
proof of the truth of our position. The Security Council
and the nations of the Quartet have the heavy
responsibility of accompanying and, if possible,
guiding a peace process that can succeed with courage
and great perseverance.
 The Argentine Republic continues, year after
year, tirelessly to condemn the serious threat of
terrorism throughout the world. We believe that all acts
of terror are criminal and unjustifiable and that no
argument can justify them. Just as no nation of the
world is beyond their reach, the response must be a
joint effort of all nations, and especially this
Organization, to stop and eliminate this scourge. We
cannot tolerate the actions of those responsible for
terrorism or of those who defend, finance or protect
terrorists, be they individuals or countries.
 Argentina has twice suffered terrorist attacks. The
Israeli embassy was attacked in 1992 and the AMIA
headquarters in 1994. Some 102 members of our
community, some of whose relatives are here with us
today, lost their lives. Those victims, united by terror to
those of this city, those of Madrid, those of London,
those of Bali, those of Istanbul and those of many other
places, impose upon us the moral mandate to respect
their memories and to commit all our energies to
hunting down, finding and prosecuting those
responsible.
 Despite the difficulties that have arisen through
the passage of time, given that those attacks took place
13 and 15 years ago, respectively, and the subsequent
cover-ups, our interest and the justice system continue
to seek the truth, and we keep our memory of the
horror alive so that it will not recur.
 In November last year, the Argentine justice
system called for international cooperation in the
apprehension of nine people suspected of having
initiated and planned the 18 July 1994 attack on AMIA,
and the Executive Committee of INTERPOL
unanimously recommended the apprehension of six
Iranian citizens and one Lebanese involved in the
affair. We call here for that recommendation to be
ratified during the November session of the
INTERPOL General Assembly.
 In that context, we hope that the Islamic Republic
of Iran, in the context of applicable international law,
will accept and respect Argentina’s legal jurisdiction
and cooperate effectively with Argentine judges to
bring to justice those involved in these events. In that
respect, I wish to say here, at United Nations
Headquarters and before all the countries of the world,
that, unfortunately, the Islamic Republic of Iran has to
date failed to offer the required cooperation with the
Argentine justice system to resolve those issues.
 We call on the Secretary-General and on all the
nations of the world to persuade the Islamic Republic
of Iran to allow the judicial process to move forward.
We do so with the sole aim of clarifying the facts and
bringing those responsible to justice. Respect for the
memory of our 102 victims requires justice to be
carried out. We request the Islamic Republic of Iran to
cooperate in the implementation of the norms of
international law to allow us to come to nothing more,
but nothing less than the truth.
 Nations big and small, rich and poor, all
throughout the world will be highly vulnerable if we
fail to grasp that action against terrorism requires
urgent multilateral, intelligent and sustained action
firmly anchored in legitimacy, respect for individual
rights, proportional response and respect for
international public opinion.
 Efforts to counter the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction can count on the firm support and full
participation of the Argentine Republic.
 My country is known for the active role it plays
in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Argentina
develops, consumes and exports nuclear energy for
peaceful purposes in the framework of the strictest
respect for the norms enshrined in the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the
non-proliferation regime in its broadest sense.
 Efforts to prevent proliferation are ethically and
legally correlated to progress on disarmament. Indeed,
the legal instruments on which the prohibition of
weapons of mass destruction is based specifically on
the firm commitment not to develop new weapons of
terror and destruction in the understanding that those
who possess such weapons will proceed to their
gradual and effective elimination.
 In recent years, we have seen disarmament
commitments permanently eroded. Nuclear arsenals
remain disproportionately large and nuclear
disarmament agreements are in stasis. It should come
as no surprise, then, that, given the situation, there are
those who question the legitimacy of pursuing
unilateral advocacy for non-proliferation while solemn
commitments in the area of disarmament are ignored.
 Conventional weapons are responsible for the
deaths of millions of people around the world. Our
country has given a high priority to initiatives
associated with the conclusion of an arms trade treaty.
Domestically, we have initiated programmes for the
voluntary handover of firearms, the initial results of
which have been encouraging.
 The reform of the Security Council is still
pending. We are hoping for a reform that will make this
central body more responsible, democratically
representative and dynamic. It will not, however,
achieve this objective by creating new privileged
categories. We trust that the ongoing process of
consultations will be successful so that the Council can
be adapted to today’s world.
 Before concluding I wish to raise a matter of
continuing importance to the Argentine Republic: the
question of the Malvinas Islands, which include South
Georgia, South Sandwich and the maritime areas
surrounding those islands. This year, 174 years will
have passed since the British began to occupy this part
of Argentine national territory. Ever since that act of
force in 1833, my country has protested against this
illegal occupation and has demanded that the full
exercise of its sovereignty be restored.
 We would also mention that 2007 marks the
twenty-fifth anniversary of the 1982 conflict in the
South Atlantic, a conflict unleashed by the military
dictatorship without the backing of the Argentine
people, who had always endeavoured to find a peaceful
solution to its legitimate sovereignty claim.
 The General Assembly has dealt with this matter
on many occasions, both prior to and since 1982.
Starting in 1965, when the Assembly adopted
resolution 2065 (XX), the Organization has recognized,
year after year, the existence of a sovereignty dispute
between Argentina and the United Kingdom relating to
the question of the Malvinas Islands. It urged the two
Governments to negotiate, as soon as possible, a
peaceful, just and lasting solution to the dispute, taking
into account the relevant resolutions of United Nations
bodies and the interests of the people of the islands.
The ongoing and unrenounceable objective of
regaining the full exercise of Argentine sovereignty
over this part of our territory and the permanent
readiness of my country to resume negotiations aimed
at finding a solution to the dispute have been reflected
in our national Constitution.
 It is incomprehensible to us that the United
Kingdom should be unwilling to negotiate this matter,
thereby violating the provisions of General Assembly
resolution 2065 (XX) and numerous similar
resolutions.
 The time has come for the United Kingdom to
shoulder its responsibility and put an end to an
anachronism: the illegal occupation for clearly colonial
purposes of territory belonging to another State.
 My Government vigorously rejects the British
claim on the establishment of maritime areas
surrounding the archipelagos. In particular, it rejects
the recently divulged intention of the United Kingdom
to make a submission to the Commission on the Limits
of the Continental Shelf — established by the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea — relative
to the outer limits of the continental shelf of these
Argentine territories.
 In this, my last message to the General Assembly
as the President of the people of Argentina, I wish to
reaffirm our profound conviction that it is only through
democracy, accompanied by freedom, social justice
and peace, that man can realize his full potential. This
Assembly of the peoples has a bounden duty to help
ensure that that will come to pass.
"
62,2007,AGO,"At the outset,
I would like to salute the international community,
legitimately represented here today. I would also like
to take this opportunity to personally congratulate
Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his election to the post of
Secretary-General of our Organization. I am confident,
Sir, that your able leadership, steadfastness and
commitment will assist us in our search for consensual
solutions to the issues that affect humanity in order to
make the world an increasingly safer, freer and fairer
place.
 Today, the world is confronted with global
warming, a consequence of the atmospheric pollution
resulting from human activity on Earth, which is
causing dramatic and dangerous climate change. The
world is also confronted with extremists who resort to
terrorism and the use of religion for political ends; with
growing militarism as a would-be response to
terrorism; and with the hoarding of capital, information
and know-how, all of which widen the gap between the
rich and the poor and generate social tensions around
the world.
 On the issue of terrorism, the model of an open,
democratic and tolerant civilization, with a State that
serves the interests of all, has shown that parties that
alternate in political office in the post-cold-war period
can coexist and fight for their principles and values
through peaceful means. I believe that the same model
can be successful if properly adjusted to the concrete
realities of other regions.
 At the same time, we must continue to deepen our
study and analysis of the threat of terrorism and use
peaceful means to seek an ever-broader consensus on
the collective responses needed to counter it.
 Islam can peacefully coexist in societies with
other religious beliefs. However, it is necessary to
neutralize fanaticism and prevent the Islamization of
the State, which is contrary to humanity’s modern legal
concept of a secular State.
 In our opinion, it is necessary to defend cultural
diversity and to render more inclusive and fair the
process of political, economic and social development;
to support and stimulate, in countries that are
predominantly Islamic, all the forces and movements
that defend modern life and the separation of State
from religion; and to support the values and privileges
of the universal culture that are enshrined in
conventions, charters and international treaties. This
movement is immense, it continues to grow and it can
be more effective than military action, which in our
understanding should only constitute a last resort.
 Ecumenism and dialogue among cultures are
other avenues for action that can be better and more
frequently used to bring together the dominant
religions and all the people of the world, based on the
ideals of peace, solidarity and fraternity.
 The fight against poverty and hunger in the
world, with a global plan monitored by the United
Nations as an international convention, higher and
fairer remuneration for commodities or natural
resources extracted from developing countries and
technical support to poor States would contribute
greatly to eliminating social inequalities and the social
seedbed and support of those who prefer violence.
 In this regard, the globalization of the economy
must be regulated in order to mitigate the asymmetries
between the centre and the periphery of the economic
system and to ensure that each person has the
necessary means for survival with dignity.
 Such regulation should further address
environmental matters. There are countries that have
experienced rapid industrial development without
paying due attention to the protection of the
environment. Other countries are now involved in an
identical endeavour, thus increasing the production of
carbon dioxide and worsening the greenhouse effect. It
is plain that a new meeting of all world leaders is
urgently required in order to approve and begin the
execution of a global plan of environmental protection.
 We therefore support the initiative of the
Secretary-General to that end, convinced that the
countries that most pollute the atmosphere, such as the
richest countries, should contribute more resources to
its protection.
 Today, the Republic of Angola is in a position to
engage more actively in this collective effort of
solidarity for humanity, because the country has been
at peace for a little more than five years and is moving
towards complete normalization of its political,
economic and social life. Proof of that lies in the fact
that Angola has already signed all the international
protocols in favour of environmental protection, such
as the Kyoto and the Montreal Protocols, while
contributing to conflict resolution and peace in its
region and in the African continent as a whole.
 As a country that has recently chaired the
Peacebuilding Commission, we are pleased to learn of
the important progress achieved in consolidating the
peace processes in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Burundi, Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia and Serra
Leone.
 However, the conflict between Ethiopia and
Eritrea and the conflict in Darfur, Sudan, still prevail,
while the issue of Western Sahara’s self-determination
remains unresolved. I am convinced that the
Organization will remain engaged in the search for a
solution to these problems in the shortest time possible
and that United Nations forces will be urgently
deployed in Darfur.
 The Commission of the Gulf of Guinea is
currently headquartered in Luanda, where the
representatives of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation
of the South Atlantic met recently at the initiative of
Angola. Both institutions promote peace, security,

stability and multiform cooperation among their
members, in consonance with the principles of the
United Nations Charter.
 I must highlight the decisive role that regional
and subregional organizations can play in the
prevention and resolution of conflicts. At the same
time, they can alert everyone to the need to strengthen
the mandates and the financing of United Nations
peacekeeping operations, without prejudice to post-
conflict activities, such as disarmament and the
resettlement of populations, among other actions.
 In the particular case of Africa, it is in our
interest to see the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) fully achieved, so that the growth rate of the
entire continent can be aligned with that of the world
economy. The reduction of extreme poverty by 50 per
cent by 2015, as foreseen by the United Nations, must
be accompanied by a decisive fight against hunger and
disease, including HIV/AIDS and other endemic
scourges. The effectiveness of these actions depends,
however, on complementary achievements, such as
fairer trade with developed countries, greater fluidity
in the transfer of capital, official development
assistance and forgiveness of foreign debt.
 In recent years, significant progress has been
made in the reform of the United Nations system. It is
nevertheless important to continue to move forward in
that process, especially in regard to the Security
Council, with the objective of strengthening the
authority and the effectiveness of the Organization and
making it more representative, more democratic and
more participatory in the areas of international security,
development and human rights.
 In spite of criticism and some known failures, the
United Nations remains the only institution at the
international level with the prestige and credibility to
resolve inter-State conflicts and crises that, due to their
dimensions, escape the control of the authorities of a
State or endanger its population.
 The United Nations-led fight against
conventional, nuclear, chemical and biological
weapons and landmines, in addition to the
peacekeeping and humanitarian operations of the Blue
Helmets in many regions, have contributed to greater
world security. In that regard, it is important to
strengthen the monitoring of the implementation of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT), so as to move towards a global disarmament
process and discourage a new arms race. It is also
urgent to relaunch the Middle East peace process in a
committed and comprehensive manner, for the Middle
East remains unstable and the source of a constant
threat to world peace.
 A recurring theme in the Assembly’s agenda is
the embargo against Cuba. It is imperative to put an
end once and for all to the economic, trade and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of
America, as it violates the principles of international
law and Chapters I and II of the United Nations
Charter. Angola hopes that the United Nations will
state its view on this matter and remain faithful to the
core of its Charter, according to which all actions must
be the result of a debate and a collective decision, thus
excluding unilateralism.
 The challenges that lie ahead of us entail a
constructive dialogue among all the countries involved,
especially among heads of State and Government, who
will have to overcome possible differences and
impediments and will have to find middle ground
between the possible and the desirable, between
boldness and realism.
 We believe that through joint action, the
promotion of dialogue among civilizations and the
revitalization of the spirit of international solidarity, it
will be possible to build a better world for all. A world
of peace, based on justice and the rule of law, without
weapons of war and without dangerous pollution is a
safer world. Its construction depends entirely on the
political will of all States Members of the United
Nations, especially the permanent members of the
Security Council. Let us all unite our forces for a better
world for all.
"
62,2007,AUT,"Let me address at the
outset a burning issue: the situation in
Myanmar/Burma. We join the call of many, including
our partners in the European Union and in the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, for an
immediate cessation of violence. The bloodshed has to
stop. Democratic rights and the freedom of assembly
and expression have to be respected. We reiterate the
call for the release from detention of Nobel Peace Prize
laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the Burmese
democratic opposition. That appeal was also made at
this morning’s meeting of the Women’s Empowerment
Network, which unites women leaders from around the
globe.
 We can all feel a sense of urgency at this sixty-
second General Assembly session about the need to
counter contemporary challenges with decisive joint
action. Climate change, disarmament and dangerous
technologies are just three examples requiring such
joint action, now.
 Let me thus call for relaunching effective
multilateralism. And let me make the case for a new
global partnership   the joint search for sustainable
joint solutions, united by a shared sense of
responsibility and purpose. The very concept of
partnership is key in addressing the new challenges,
both inside our societies and in the global village.
Partnership is an eye-to-eye approach, based on
recognizing and respecting each other as equals.
Partnership is also a demanding option: anyone who
wants to be treated as a partner has to behave as a
partner.
 We all know that none of us, not even the
strongest, can master the challenges of the twenty-first
century on his or her own. In the age of globalization,
unilateralism and nationalism are dead-end streets.
They simply do not achieve effective and durable
results. We thus need both global processes and global
objectives. We need to actively engage to build
confidence and to counter the erosion of trust that so
often breeds unilateral action.
 Climate change is the obvious challenge to be
addressed in such a new global partnership. The United
Nations is the only framework in which a fair and truly
global agreement can be designed. Regional and
sectoral efforts need to be linked, feeding into this
global process. Furthermore, it is here only that those
who contribute least to climate change but are most
affected by it   such as the small island developing
States   can make their voices heard.
 Disarmament, arms control and conflict
prevention are next in need of a credible relaunch of
multilateralism and a new partnership. In the nuclear
age, we simply cannot afford to acquiesce to the
present level of armament and to signs of a new arms
race. Non-proliferation and an actual reduction of
weapons stockpiles thus have to make an immediate
comeback to the top of the global agenda.
 On certain limited issues, multilateral progress is
within reach. A consistently growing number of States
is rallying behind our call for the adoption by 2008 of a
legally binding instrument to prohibit cluster
munitions, which cause unacceptable harm to civilians.
Austria is determined to continue leading this process
by example, with a total national ban of this atrocious
weapon.
 Nuclear technology is a third field for a new
global partnership. The world is turning nuclear,
whether we like it or not. This in itself is regrettable
for countries like Austria which have renounced
nuclear energy altogether because we believe it is a
dangerous and non-sustainable source of energy.
Inevitably, the rise of nuclear power across the globe
will lead to more and more tensions with regard to the
nature   whether for energy purposes or for weapons
development   of national nuclear programmes. There
is a highly dangerous grey zone between what is
permitted and what is possible.
 A new global partnership where sensitive parts of
the nuclear fuel cycle are multilateralized could offer a
way out. We should create a regime in which
enrichment facilities would be placed under the control
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
The Agency would guarantee adequate fuel supply to
those who fulfil strict non-proliferation criteria through
an international nuclear fuel bank. This would help to
dissuade tensions and make new national enrichment
facilities superfluous.
 At present, the Iranian nuclear programme   for
many reasons   is deeply upsetting for the entire
international community, not just for some of us. Iran
should take these concerns very seriously. It is clearly
up to Iran to dispel any shadow of doubt over the
nature of its programme by providing undisputable
proof to the world’s nuclear watchdog, the IAEA, now.
Like many others, we strongly support Director
General ElBaradei’s appeal for a double time-out and
urge Iran to heed this call.
 Our engagement for peace and security is rooted
in the firm belief that right must prevail over might.
Smaller and medium-sized Member States like Austria
understandably have a profound attachment to the rule
of law. For us, respect for the rule of law is a matter
not of choice but of necessity. Together with many
other like-minded countries, we will continue
promoting the rule of law and will give strong support
to the newly established Rule of Law Assistance Unit.
 Austria believes in the power of partnership,
where equality, mutual trust and respect for diversity
overcome the crude logic of power. From our
experience, effective global partnership best builds on
both regional partnerships and regional ownership.
Austria is thus committed to developing a new
relationship among equals between the European
Union and the African Union, at the forthcoming
European Union-Africa summit in Lisbon.
 To this end, Burkina Faso and Austria will
co-host a conference in Ouagadougou in November on
how to create sustainable peace. The meeting will unite
participants from countries of the Economic
Community of West African States and Europe in an
endeavour to provide a common input to the Lisbon
summit   by furthering policies of good-
neighbourliness, the rule of law and good governance;
by fighting the proliferation of small arms and light
weapons; by creating employment for young people;
and by actively promoting the education of girls.
 Together with the United Nations, the African
Union is currently breaking new ground with the
preparations for the African Union-United Nations
Hybrid Operation in Darfur. The human suffering we
witness in the region sometimes goes beyond
imagination. We therefore welcome the ongoing efforts
to alleviate this plight, including in neighbouring
States.
 We Europeans cannot credibly call upon other
regions of the world to assume their regional
responsibilities if we remain unable to cope with the
challenges on our own continent, and in particular the
Kosovo issue. We need to resolve the last open status
issue in the Western Balkans now. We therefore fully
support the ongoing efforts of the Kosovo Troika and
encourage Belgrade and Pristina to energetically make
use of that negotiating space. The Special Envoy of the
Secretary-General, President Ahtisaari, has provided us
with a clear sense of direction. We Europeans want
each and every person in Kosovo to live in dignity,
freedom and security. The international organizations
concerned, including the European Union, must spare
no effort towards that end. It is also our continued
obligation under Security Council resolution 1244
(1999), which referred to the specific contribution the
European Union can make to the stability of Kosovo as
well as the entire Balkan region.
 Women around the world are ready to bear a key
responsibility in conflict prevention, conflict resolution
and peacebuilding. But women also need to be given a
fair share of positions in international mediation and
peacebuilding efforts. Not so long ago, there was not a
single woman among the 54 United Nations Special
Representatives and Envoys to conflict and post-
conflict regions. I am encouraged by the Secretary-
General’s support on this matter and the recent
nomination of three women Deputy Special
Representatives: for Liberia, the Sudan and Lebanon. It
is also up to us, the Member States, to nominate more
women for such positions.
 No conflict is too complex or too deep to durably
resist dialogue. The absence of dialogue breeds
misperceptions and sometimes even opens space for
violence. Austria has long-standing experience in
promoting dialogue among civilizations, religions and
cultures, and we will continue our activities in that
field with vigour. We must actively combat attempts to
hijack religion for other purposes anywhere in our
global village. Religious leaders must also take a clear
stance in condemning and fighting practices not related
to religion, such as so-called honour killings or female
genital mutilation.
 Austria firmly supports the current bilateral and
international efforts that are taking place to renew the
dialogue between Israel and its Arab neighbours. We
hope that the meetings between Prime Minister Olmert
and President Abbas will create the basis for
implementing the two-State solution: Israel and a
Palestinian State living as neighbours in peace and
security.
 We appreciate the efforts by the United States for
an international meeting later this year to assist the
parties in their quest for a just solution. We expect that
meeting to advance the peace process substantially and
sustainably by addressing the core issues, and we stand
ready to assist in preparatory and follow-up activities.
The people of the entire Middle East region are thirsty
for a new perspective of hope.
 In 2008 we will celebrate a landmark in the
promotion and protection of human rights: the sixtieth
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and its immutable foundation, the universality
of fundamental rights. All human beings are born free
and equal in dignity and rights. It is therefore not
acceptable that human rights be revitalized or
diminished in relation to geography or other factors.
There is no doubt that women must enjoy the same
universal rights, wherever they live and whatever their
culture, creed or religion.
 Our peoples expect from their leadership nothing
less than a life in dignity, but above all a life in
freedom from fear and in freedom from want. If we are
truly committed to human security, it is essential that
we make every effort to meet the Millennium
Development Goals by determined, concerted action to
eradicate poverty and hunger, to promote equality
between men and women and to protect our planet’s
resources. The Austrian Government has made it an
explicit priority to actively live up to the rising
challenges.
 Based on our long-standing engagement for the
principles and values of the United Nations, I pledge
that Austria will be a responsible and reliable partner
as a non-permanent member of the Security Council
for the term 2009-2010. We hope that the Members of
the United Nations will entrust Austria with that
responsibility, which we stand ready to shoulder in a
spirit of true partnership.
"
62,2007,MNE," Allow me,  Mr. President, to join others in welcoming you and
congratulating you on your election as President of the
General Assembly at its sixty-second session. We are
convinced that your leadership will contribute to
promoting both your country and our entire region, as
well as to a successful outcome at the current session.
 May I also extend wholehearted congratulations
to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon. He can
count on the full support of Montenegro, as the
youngest Member of the United Nations. Particular
thanks go also to Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa for
her successful presidency of the General Assembly at
its sixty-first session.
 It is time for all countries   and particularly
smaller and developing countries   to realize that
multilateralism is the pre-eminent form of interaction
in our changing world. Multilateralism provides a
framework for choosing democratic, development and
cultural options that can most effectively meet the
major challenges ahead, including the maintenance of
peace and security, climate change, development
processes, the fight against terrorism and the protection
of human rights.
 Mindful of the importance of multilateral
organizations, in particular the United Nations,
Montenegro stands ready to actively participate in
making those principles a reality. As a society that is
implementing major structural economic and social
reforms, we understand and support the reform
processes taking place under the auspices of the
Organization. Furthermore, as a Member State, we are
aware of our obligation to respect the international
legal order and to contribute to the consolidation of
peace and democracy in the international community.
 Good-neighbourly relations and regional
cooperation, as integral components of the processes of
European and Euro-Atlantic integration, form the basis
of Montenegro’s foreign policy. We strongly believe
that Montenegro and the Western Balkans clearly have
a European future. In that context, we support the
efforts of all of our neighbours to adopt and implement
European standards and values.
 In mid-October, we shall sign a stabilization and
association agreement with the European Union (EU),
thus establishing the first contractual relationship
between Montenegro and the Union. That will
complete the current phase of intensive activities on
our path towards Europe, which will enable us to enter
a new and enhanced phase in our European relations. It
is in that context that we view our recent accession to
the Partnership for Peace initiative. Our commitment to
European and Euro-Atlantic integration has been
reaffirmed in all the strategic documents that we have
adopted since the restoration of our independence.
 Many development processes are now taking
place in Montenegro: an expansion of our open-market
economy, the transformation of ownership structures
and reform of our public sector, judicial and security
structures. Our institutional reforms and development
programmes, which have been the focus of our
political activities during the current phase, are guided
by the principles of European and Euro-Atlantic
integration, which are a guarantee of stability and
prosperity. It is with a full sense of responsibility that
we are creating an environment that ensures the rule of
law, equality and respect for human, minority and
religious rights. In that way we can contribute to
regional stability as well.
 Although we are a small State, we stand ready to
contribute, to the best of our ability, to the
establishment of conditions that will enable the region
to continue along the path of mutual trust, enhanced
stabilization and unhindered cooperation.
 By becoming independent, Montenegro has taken
charge of its integration into the system of international
relations as an equal partner and has shouldered its
responsibility for the maintenance of peace, security
and stability in the region, while building an open and
democratic civil society.
 In that context, we believe that the direct
negotiations that have begun on Kosovo’s future status
will be fruitful. Montenegro strongly supports that
negotiating process, in which the international
community has invested considerable effort, convinced
that it will lead to a lasting and sustainable solution
that will contribute to the strengthening and
preservation of regional stability over the long term.
 Montenegro is particularly sensitive to the theme
underlying the sixty-second session of the General
Assembly: our response to climate change. As the
Secretary-General stated in paragraph 8 of his report
on the work of the Organization (A/62/1), “[C]limate
change, and what we do about it, will define us, our
era, and ultimately our global legacy”. Here, the idea
of the world as a global village, an indivisible whole, is
perhaps most evident. Without a common approach,
there can be no correct response. No one has the right
to remain indifferent to this challenge, either
individually or in global terms.
The negative impacts of climate change could be
many. It could affect countries such as my own in ways
that include a rise in the level of the Adriatic Sea,
rising temperatures and damage to forest and other
ecosystems and to biodiversity. In that context,
Montenegro is making efforts to keep pace with global
trends, contributing to endeavours to ensure better
living conditions and a more humane environment for
us and future generations. We are carrying out many
activities and projects to that end, including efforts in
fulfilment of our international obligations. We have
ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, and we have
begun to prepare our first report on implementation of
the Protocol. We also recently adopted a national
sustainable development strategy and are now
establishing a network of public institutions to plan
activities related to the challenges of climate change.
 Mindful of our country’s natural resources and of
our responsibility to preserve them, the parliament of
the Republic of Montenegro decided in 1991 to declare
Montenegro an ecological State. As an ecological State,
Montenegro has an additional obligation to support
United Nations efforts to promote sustainable
development throughout the world. Through robust
efforts, we shall continue to strengthen Montenegro as
a State that guarantees sustainable development for its
citizens.
 We therefore welcome the efforts of the United
Nations and particularly of the Secretary-General in
this area. We are encouraged by the messages
emanating from the present General Assembly session
and the recent high-level event on climate change. We
hope that those messages will contribute significantly
to the success of the Bali process in December and that
the Bali Climate Change Conference will produce
additional constructive proposals and sustainable
solutions, particularly with regard to the post-2012
goals.
 In recent months, we have seen the United
Nations continue to make significant efforts in hot
spots throughout the world. The contributions made by
the United Nations in Darfur alone have repeatedly
demonstrated the Organization’s capacity to adapt and
to play its appropriate role in today’s world.
 We therefore believe that the United Nations is
capable of undertaking comprehensive reform of its
system to respond to the increasingly complex
challenges facing it. Given the importance of the
Organization to world peace and security, the
modalities of such reform should result in a stronger,
more organized, better coherent and more effective
United Nations.
 We are of the view that effective coordination
among the principal United Nations organs is vital. We
have seen some progress in this area since the 2005
World Summit.
 Another essential aspect of United Nations
reform is reform of the General Assembly, which
remains the primary decision-making organ of the
United Nations. Work on that aspect, together with
others, must be intensified and made more results-
oriented.
 The same thing applies to the ongoing debate on
reform of the Economic and Social Council and, in
particular, of the Security Council. Equitable
representation for the Group of Eastern European
States, to which we belong, should be guaranteed in
that important organ.
 For a small country like Montenegro, effective
cooperation with the United Nations is crucial. We are
therefore most interested in being the agent and
promoter of that cooperation, be it through the One
United Nations Initiative or through a similar modality.
Our commitment to cooperation with the United
Nations is also demonstrated by the project to build the
first United Nations eco-building as the focal point for
all United Nations activities in Montenegro.
 As a developing country, Montenegro looks
forward to the High-level Dialogue on Financing for
Development and to the successful conclusion of the
Doha Round negotiations, which we hope will lend
fresh impetus to bringing together economic, financial
and social issues with the aim of achieving
comprehensive progress and development. The world
today faces a multitude of challenges in this area.
Montenegro stands ready to contribute to the global
partnership for development.
 In that context, Montenegro will continue its
activities conducive to the full implementation of the
Millennium Development Goals, for we are convinced
that in that way we will contribute to improving quality
of life and overall stability.
 With a view to meeting the legitimate security
interests of nations, we must be united and decisive in
tackling terrorism, which continues to threaten the
world. The United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism
Strategy and its Plan of Action (resolution 60/288) are
of great importance, and call for agreement on a
comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
 Montenegro will continue to demonstrate its full
and unequivocal commitment to, and compliance with,
international obligations through its cooperation with
the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia (ICTY). We shall continue our concrete
cooperation with the ICTY, contributing not only to the
rule of law but also to implementing the Tribunal’s
completion strategy.
 We shall continue to craft our policies and to
work towards our development on the basis of the
principles set out in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, which represent the foundations of
modern democracy. We therefore view the United
Nations as the most important forum for achieving
progress, a more equitable future and a community of
equal nations.
 Our country is proud of its multi-ethnic and
multiconfessional harmony. That is one of our
cherished values, which distinguishes Montenegro in
the regional and broader international context. With
our traditions and culture, Montenegro is part of the
age-old historical currents of the Balkans, the
Mediterranean and Europe. We are at the crossroads of
civilizations and religions, and share the intertwined
influences emanating from them. We want to preserve
and enhance that legacy by working together not only
with our neighbours but also with all other countries
with which we share such advantages of geography,
culture and values.
 The world Organization is the only true global
forum, because it reflects all the diversity and qualities
of its Members, which are united by principles and
values that, after 62 years, continue to serve as a
beacon in an increasingly changing and dynamic
world. Following that course while being prepared to
change is an imperative for us all.
"
62,2007,FJI,"On behalf of  the people of Fiji, I extend to you, Mr. President, and
to the General Assembly, our warm greetings: Ni sa
bula and Namaste. We would also like congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its sixty-second session.
 I would also like to acknowledge the presence of
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. We wish to extend to
him our warmest congratulations, as this is his first full
Assembly session as Secretary-General. We note with
gratitude the initiatives he has taken in the brief period
since he assumed leadership to enhance momentum in
the work of the United Nations. Fiji appreciates in
particular his policy of inclusiveness and the attention
that he is giving to the vulnerable situation and the
special needs of small island nations.
 At the outset, Fiji wishes to reiterate its unwavering
commitment to achieving the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs), pursuing environmentally friendly and
sustainable development activities and addressing the
challenges of climate change. As those issues have been
widely debated in the Assembly, I would like to take this
opportunity to address other issues of particular concern
to Fiji.
 United Nations-led peacekeeping operations are
renowned worldwide and have become the human face
of this multilateral body in war-torn and conflict-prone
regions of the world. For its part, Fiji continues to
stand ready to shoulder the burden of promoting
international peace. In that regard, we have offered our
services to the African Union-United Nations hybrid
peacekeeping operation in the Sudan. In the same vein,
Fiji is committed to our collective resolve to enlarge
the presence of the United Nations in Iraq. We are
willing to contribute further towards that end, should
the need arise.
 Today, the demand for peacekeeping continues to
grow. With it comes the need for institutional reform to
adequately cater for the ever-changing nature of world
conflict. I would like to reiterate Fiji’s support for all
reform efforts, including the latest initiative of the
Secretary-General to reform the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations. At the same time, I would
urge the Secretariat to continue to resist the
politicization of United Nations peacekeeping and to
maintain the sanctity of its independence as a forum
wherein the willing may volunteer their services freely
and without bilateral mangling and interference.
 I now seek your indulgence, Mr. President, and
that of the Assembly, to speak about the situation,
particular circumstances and needs of Fiji at this stage
of its nationhood as an independent sovereign nation.
Fiji’s overall situation is that it is in a deep rut. It needs
the understanding and support of the international
community to be able to move forward to regain its
dignity and its rightful place as a responsible member
of the international family of nations. I am mindful, as
I stand here today in the presence of the Assembly, that
members may see me as the military leader who
removed an elected Government. I cannot begrudge
them that, because that indeed is a fact. I submit to the
Assembly that, although the Government of the day
was removed from power last December, such action
was taken with extreme reluctance. I am not a
politician; nor do I aspire to be one. I am certainly not
much of a diplomat, and I am not used to speaking in
forums such as this. Therefore, in what I say and in
how I may put it, if in any way I am remiss with regard
to the protocols of the Assembly, I seek understanding.
 By the time the military intervened last
December, Fiji’s overall governance situation had
regressed to a catastrophic level. The international
community needs to fully understand the special local
context of Fiji’s situation. Fiji became independent on
10 October 1970, inheriting an institutional
infrastructure that could potentially have evolved
further and been strengthened to allow democracy to
take root. At that time, almost four decades ago, Fiji’s
future appeared to be one of promise and potential. For
instance, in terms of per capita income, Fiji was then in
the same league as Malaysia and Thailand. We, the
people of Fiji, viewed our country with pride and
dignity and felt that that was the way the world should
be. For more than a decade after achieving
independence, Fiji did continue to make steady
progress in economic development, education, poverty
reduction and generally improving the living
conditions of its people.
 Yet, in 1970, Fiji started its journey as a young
nation on a rather shaky foundation, with a race-based
constitution that rigidly compartmentalized our
communities. The “democracy” that came to be
practiced in Fiji was marked by divisive, adversarial,
inward-looking, raced-based politics. The legacy of
leadership, at both community and national levels, was
a fractured nation. Fiji’s people were not allowed to
share a common national identity. Of the two major
communities, indigenous Fijians were instilled with
fear of dominance and dispossession by Indo-Fijians,
and they desired protection of their status as the
indigenous people. Indo-Fijians, on the other hand, felt
alienated and marginalized as second class citizens in
their own country, the country of their birth, Fiji.
 The dates 14 May and 25 September 1987 are
fateful in Fiji’s history and also for Fiji’s military
forces. The military coups of that year were motivated
by an ethno-nationalist, racist supremacy agenda.
Those political, communal and military leaders who
were responsible for the coups and related actions in
1987 carry a very large burden in their collective
conscience for the severe ruptures to the very fabric of
Fiji society and the dislocations and suffering that they
caused in the lives of many of Fiji’s citizens.
 In May 2000, Fiji suffered yet another major
setback. Again, a group of ethno-nationalist
opportunists, backed by a small errant group within the
Fiji military, overthrew the Government of the day. As
Commander of the Republic of Fiji military forces, I
did not support or condone the coup. I drew upon the
structural and cultural organization of the military to
intervene and to restore order and a state of security.
 The stand-off between the coup perpetrators and
the military in May 2000 was potentially explosive at
the time and, if not resolved, could have resulted in
much bloodshed and even greater chaos. As military
Commander, I played a key role in the handing
executive authority back into civilian hands in the
wake of the 2000 coup. This rested on a number of
critical preconditions being met in taking Fiji forward.
 An Interim Government was appointed by His
Excellency the President of Fiji, with Laisenia Qarase
as caretaker Prime Minister. The Interim Government
was tasked to pave the way to fresh elections to be held
in September of 2001. The other fundamental
conditions were that all of the perpetrators of the May
2000 coup, including the military rebels, would be
prosecuted, and that the 2000 coup would be publicly
renounced as racially motivated.
 It is tragic that Fiji’s recovery from the brink of
chaos in May 2000 did not endure. In the ensuing
years, Fiji’s overall governance took a dramatic turn
for the worse. In particular, this was characterized by
the politicization of the prison services and the
criminal justice system. There was also a significant
weakening of the key institutions of governance, a
pervasive increase in corruption, serious economic
decline combined with fiscal mismanagement, a sharp
deterioration in the law and order situation and a
deepening of the racial divide in the country. The
convicted coup perpetrators were prematurely
discharged from prison, and certain coup perpetrators
and sympathisers were appointed as senior Government
ministers and officials. There was also a series of
legislative acts that were deeply divisive and overtly
racist.
 The 2001 and 2006 general elections were not
credible. They were characterized by massive rigging
of votes, with an incumbent Government using the
State’s resources to buy support. By late 2006, Fiji’s
overall situation had deteriorated sharply, heightened
by massive corruption and lawlessness, a severe
erosion of confidence and an economy on the brink of
collapse. Also, during the latter part of 2006, Fiji’s
military had to pay particular attention to certain
external threats to the sovereignty of the nation.
 Under our current constitution, Fiji’s military is
charged with national security, defence and the well-
being of Fiji’s people. Under the circumstances, the
military, under my stewardship, could not possibly see
such an unacceptable situation unfold without seeking
to address it.
 History is testament to how I did in fact respond
to the situation. For almost four years, I was strenuous
in my efforts to constructively engage the elected
leadership of the country, seeking to cause it to reverse
its course of action, which was taking the country
down the path of destruction into an abyss. The
protracted efforts that I made to constructively engage
with the previous Government came to no avail. On the
contrary, a prominent High Chief connected to the
ruling Soqosoqo Duavata Lewenivanua (SDL) party
incited a mutiny within the military, and attempts were
made not only to remove me, but also to eliminate me.
 It was with the utmost of reluctance that Fiji’s
military, under my leadership, removed the former
Government from power in December 2006.
 Many have criticized that decision. In response, I
say this: Fiji has a coup culture, a history of civilian or
military coups executed in the interests of a few and
based on nationalism, racism and greed. In order to
remove that coup culture and to make a commitment to
democracy and the rule of law, policies which promote
racial supremacy and further the interests of economic
and social elites must be removed once and for all.
Racism, elitism and disrespect for the law are
undemocratic. They lead to hatred. They lead to
violence, poverty and moral bankruptcy. We saw that in
the years leading to the Second World War. We saw the
genocide, the concentration camps, the rampant
imperialism   which resulted, in turn, in the creation
of the United Nations.
 Within a month of the removal of the previous
Government, the President of the Republic of Fiji
resumed his constitutional authority. On 5 January
2007, the President appointed an Interim Government
which is mandated to govern Fiji until a new
Government is duly elected. With the exception of
myself, the make-up of the Interim Government is all
civilian. The presidential mandate provides the
framework within which the Interim Government, in
which I serve as Prime Minister, administers the affairs
of the State. We are resolved to take the measures
necessary to convene free and fair elections as soon as
practically possible. On this, the Interim Government is
coordinating closely with Fiji’s fellow members of the
Pacific Islands Forum and the larger international
community, including the European Union.
 Steady progress has been made in a number of
areas pertaining to upholding the existing constitution,
investigation into alleged abuses of human rights,
maintaining the independence of the judiciary and
preparatory work for the return of Fiji to parliamentary
democracy.
 Fiji’s situation is not only complex; its problems
are also deep-rooted and structural. There are no quick
or easy fixes. The country is now at a very critical
crossroad; the situation could escalate into more
serious deterioration and instability. It is imperative
that any such greater disaster or civil strife be averted.
 We therefore seek constructive dialogue and
engagement with the international community, with all
our bilateral and multilateral development partners,
whom we urge to work with us, to help support us, in
addressing our fundamental problems in moving Fiji
forward. Fiji needs the support of the international
community to develop a political and governance
framework that is truly democratic, accountable,
inclusive, equitable and non-racial and that unifies
Fiji’s diverse communities as a nation. That is indeed
the larger and most critical of challenges that Fiji now
faces.
 For our part, we firmly resolve to tackle these
challenges on at least four levels: first, to restore
stability, law and order and confidence; secondly, to
strengthen institutions for good governance including
transparency, accountability and an independent and
effectively functioning judiciary; thirdly, to carry out
major reforms in the economy to facilitate sustainable
private-sector-led growth; and lastly, to convene free
and fair general elections within a constitutional and
governance framework that will ensure that
parliamentary democracy is not only restored but can
be sustained in Fiji.
 To achieve all this, the Interim Government is
preparing to launch a major national initiative, referred
to as the Peoples Charter for Change and Progress
the PCCP. Through the PCCP, the broad cross section
of Fiji’s people will be fully engaged and involved,
through consultation and participation, in the
development of a comprehensive agenda of actions and
measures, as Fiji’s own way of addressing its
problems.
 For the future, Fiji will look at making the
necessary legal changes in the area of electoral reform
to ensure true equality at the polls. At present, all
citizens have the right to vote for two candidates: one
for a national seat of any ethnicity, and another from a
communal raced-based seat. This in turn has kept our
races apart.
 Although democracy in the form of electing a
Government was introduced in Fiji at the time of
independence, researchers and analysts have suggested
that Fijians live in a democracy with a mentality that
belongs to the chiefly system. In essence this means
that at election time, Fijians living in village and rural
areas are culturally influenced to vote for the candidate
selected for them by their chiefs, their provincial
councils and their church ministers. This leads me to
ask whether the countries that are demanding that Fiji
immediately return to democracy really understand
how distorted and unfair our system is, both legally
and culturally.
 This must change. Every person will be given the
right to vote for only one candidate, irrespective of
race or religion. This will send a message to our people
that Fiji’s leadership no longer tolerates racial divisions
and race-based politics. All men and women are equal
in dignity and in rights. Electoral reform in this respect
will be looked at by a National Council for Building a
Better Fiji, which is designed to entrench the very
principle on which the United Nations was founded.
 The draft Peoples Charter that will emerge from
such a national-level undertaking will provide the
political and governance framework, with effective
supporting and functioning institutions, to make Fiji a
truly democratic and progressive nation.
 The draft of the PCCP proposal was circulated
widely within the country, with comments and
suggestions invited. Additionally, I personally wrote to
the leaders of Fiji’s bilateral and multilateral
development partners, including the United Nations
Secretary-General, on the PCCP initiative.
 I am pleased to report that in general this
initiative has been received with very strong support
within Fiji, in particular from highly reputable and
respected civil society and community leaders in the
country. The Peoples Charter, once formulated and
adopted, will provide the strategic framework or
fundamental foundation within which the Interim
Government, and successive elected Governments, will
be expected to operate.
 In the current absence of an elected Government,
there is the issue of legitimacy and mandates. To deal
with this, the Interim Government is willing to
consider putting the draft Peoples Charter to a
referendum to get the mandate of the people for the
fundamental changes, including changes to the
Constitution of Fiji, as may be considered necessary
and appropriate.
 Fiji needs both financial and technical support
from its bilateral and multilateral development partners
to be able to effectively realize the vision that
underpins the PCCP initiative. Above all, we seek the
understanding of the international community to help
us rebuild our nation in the true spirit of internationally
acceptable precepts of good governance and a
democracy that can be made to work and that can be
sustained in Fiji.
 We must thank those Governments that have
stood by and supported Fiji in our hour of need. Fiji is
indeed very grateful and is deeply touched by their
understanding and goodwill.
 Some in the international community, including
the closest of our neighbours in the Pacific, have seen
fit to impose punitive measures upon Fiji. Of course
we know that those powerful States are protecting their
own economic and political interests in the region.
However, we in Fiji are protecting our democracy and
strengthening our democratic institutions. Those
powerful States are undermining our attempts to
rebuild our nation on strong foundations and are
undermining our attempts to appoint people of merit
and honesty to our State institutions, regardless of race
and religion. Current sanctions target any person
appointed by the Interim Government.
 This is hypocrisy at its worst on part of those
States as they are clearly undermining our efforts to
promote and practice good governance. These
actions   such as the travel bans, described as smart
sanctions   have had a debilitating impact on our
struggles to revive, to recover and to reform.
 Good governance requires effective, functioning
institutions. Since the coups of 1987, Fiji has suffered
a massive exodus of the country’s skilled and educated
people. The major beneficiaries of the transfer of those
quality human assets have been Australia and New
Zealand, and from those neighbours in particular we
seek understanding and support. Our capacities and
institutions have been severely eroded over the years.
In all of this, we desperately need help, not a closing of
doors.
 I shall conclude my statement by reaffirming
Fiji’s commitment to the United Nations and to the
various United Nations conventions on human rights,
the rule of law and democratic governance. Fiji does
not seek any unwarranted exemptions from any of
those obligations. All we seek is your deeper
understanding of our particular circumstances and the
complex situation of Fiji. We hope that you will work
with us, assist us to rebuild and move Fiji forward.
 In closing, I take this opportunity to extend to the
Secretary-General an invitation to Fiji and indeed to
our Pacific region during his tenure.
"
62,2007,URY,"I  wish to congratulate Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second session.
 On behalf of my country, Uruguay, I would like
to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and to all of those
who today are paying their respects and are celebrating
this International Day of Non-Violence.
 The Eastern Republic of Uruguay would like to
begin by reiterating its ongoing commitment to the
principles and guidelines which are and will continue
to be at the very core of its international activity: the
sovereign equality of States, the rejection of the use of
force or the threat of the use of force, peaceful
settlement of international disputes, attachment to and
support for institutions of international law, support for
international law itself, non-intervention in the internal
affairs of other States, the self-determination of
peoples, the promotion of human rights, international
cooperation in economic and social matters, and
support for multilateralism and for the quest for
collective answers based on consensus and respect for
law, and within the framework of the principles of the
United Nations Charter   which means the rejection
of any attempt to impose the will of one State over that
of others.
 Achieving these principles is sometimes impeded
by the attitude of a few dominant States that impose
illegitimate decisions, provoking conflicts that involve
a large part of humankind and affect the weakest
countries. But above all, they weaken the legal and
political authority of the United Nations. It is clear
today that lying behind those attitudes we can discern
hegemonic economic interests.
 In accordance with the suggestion of the
President, we will address the proposed agenda,
beginning with climate change.
 At the High-level Dialogue here on
24 September, Uruguay expressed its opinions and
referred to various aspects of this problem that lead to
a serious and paradoxical situation for less developed
countries: even though they do not contribute
significantly to global warming, they are the ones that
suffer the most and are the most vulnerable to its
affects.
 Regrettably, as we all know, there are highly
industrialized countries responsible for emitting
millions of tons of gas that cause global warming and
climate change, which, however, do not seem ready to
reduce their emissions nor to cooperate with the
international community to compensate for these
effects. We must call upon those countries to sign the
Kyoto Protocol and to contribute, in a way that is
proportionate to their responsibility in generating this
problem, so that this struggle can be carried forward by
all the nations of our planet in solidarity.
 For basically agricultural and fishing countries
such as Uruguay and many other undeveloped
countries, climate is a decisive factor for development.
The dramatic climate variations that are increasingly
notorious constitute a serious threat for their
possibilities for progress and the well-being of their
populations. This is why our countries have affirmed
that temporary aid and depending on the goodwill of
rich countries when faced with specific catastrophes
does not accomplish much. Rather, we need effective
measures to be adopted from now on to prevent these
catastrophes and commitments that are to be made now
in order to avoid continuing to create the conditions
that produce these catastrophes.
 In considering the topic of financing for
development, we should begin with the following
question. What have been the causes of
underdevelopment, economic and political dependency
and poverty for billions of people, most of whom live
in the southern part of the planet?
 Looking for such financing, we tend to
immediately think of financial organizations like the
World Bank, or those which, in order to maintain
budgets   that is, economic and social programmes
reflecting fiscal imbalances, have for decades
prescribed economic formulas, such as those applied
by the International Monetary Fund, which instead of
leading to development have destroyed the productive
apparatus of entire regions of the planet, thus
generating unemployment, increasing poverty and
concentrating wealth.
 My country, along with other countries of the
South American region, the Cairns Group and the
Group of 22, has been saying for two decades that it is
important to have just standards of trade rather than
preaching about the unconditional opening of markets
on the pretext of free trade while simultaneously
practising the crudest and most ruthless protection of
the world’s predominant systems of production and
stubbornly refusing to comply with part V of the
Agreement on Agriculture, annexed to the Marrakesh
Agreement, whose objectives include the elimination
of subsidies and the opening up of markets.
Unfortunately, we have not managed to convince the
United States and the European Union of this.
 To put it briefly and concisely, developing
countries do not need to be “helped”; they need
guarantees of free access to markets and, in particular,
the elimination of domestic production subsidies,
which violate the competitiveness guarantees, which
are so highly touted. It is in agriculture that the
southern countries are highly competitive and produce
consumer goods of high quality, generally free of
genetic modification. Real free trade would not make
them turn to international credit and would enable
them to generate their own resources to finance their
own development, integrate their economies, to expand
their markets, create their own multilateral credit
institutions and diversify their products and, as a result,
their markets.
 Uruguay is the Chairman pro tempore of the
Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) and we
firmly believe in the regional integration of all of the
countries of South America. That is their strategic
option in foreign policy.
 Our South America possesses all of the natural
resources that we find in the world; we have energy
reserves for more than 100 years; we have the potential
to produce food for 4 billion people; we have the
largest global freshwater reserves; we have major
mineral resources. Hence, we can make decisive
economic and social progress, with a view to
eliminating poverty.
 But despite all of that, we face an absurd and
criminal situation: out of 400 million people in South
America, 200 million live under the poverty threshold;
there are areas of the continent where there are
extremely high rates of infant mortality. Life
expectancy for part of that population is practically
half of what it is in developed countries.
 We cannot forget that in today’s world South
America is a factor of peace and political stability. All
of the current Governments of South America have
been democratically elected. Both in MERCOSUR and
in its associated States, we have adopted the so-called
democratic clause that says that a country can belong
to these integration systems only if it respects
democratic principles.
 That is why, after 200 years of non-integration,
we will tenaciously defend that achievement   so that
anti-democratic and destabilizing interference will fail
and so that the continent of hope, as we call it, can
have an impact on the world to affirm peace and
respect for international law, democratic stability,
fundamental freedoms and human rights, which with
great sacrifice these people have recovered after
decades of a doctrine focusing on national security.
 Uruguay reaffirms its commitment to the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In order to
achieve them, we need greater social justice, a better
distribution of wealth and the gradual establishment of
new criteria that would place the economy at the
service of humankind instead of being a factor of
slavery and poverty for a large part of humankind   a
tool that is used for the excessive enrichment of
privileged groups.
 Our country knows the difficulties that all
developing nations face in working towards those
objectives. The current Uruguayan Government
inherited a country that had experienced the worst
crisis in its history, with levels of poverty affecting
1 million people out of a population of 3.5 million
people; in tens of thousands of cases poverty reached
the levels of abject poverty. All of this was the result of
the application of a foreign economic model which was
contrary to the interests of the region and its people.
 Tackling this reality meant not only medium-term
and long-term productive development measures, but
also emergency social measures. Thus, in 2005 we
implemented an emergency plan which in two years
reduced the number of poor by 120,000, eliminated
abject poverty and helped to socially reintegrate a large
percentage of those who had been affected.
 The Government is moving forward with a social
equity plan, which involves the integration of more
than 500,000 people   one seventh of the
population   into the national health system, which is
also being substantially modified. It also includes
benefits of roughly $40 per month to all children who
go to primary school and roughly $45 per month for
those who attend secondary or technical school. All of
this will help bring about a positive process of social
inclusion.
 Likewise, laws are being considered to transform
the entire educational sector and which are also aimed
at achieving the MDGs. At present, school is
mandatory from the age of 4 and special attention is
being paid to dealing with the problem of dropouts.
 For Uruguay, no type of terrorism is acceptable or
justifiable: neither State terrorism, which we
experienced during the 1970s and 1980s and which
became a national security doctrine, nor the terrorism
that is practiced by some groups to further their social,
political, religious or other demands, claiming victims
who, in the end, are always innocent people.
 In the United Nations context, Uruguay is a party
to all United Nations-system counter-terrorism
conventions. We have submitted the relevant reports to
all United Nations committees in this area.
 Uruguay is concerned both by acts of terrorism
and by their underlying causes. These include the
promotion of hate based on cultural, political, racial or
religious differences; the talk of a so-called inevitable
clash of civilizations; military invasions; and the
persistence of difficult conditions for part of
populations living in occupied territories.
Interventionism and non-compliance with United
Nations resolutions to resolve conflicts are causing an
increase in extremism and religious fanaticism among
such peoples and seem to be the factors that have
contributed most to the worsening and proliferation of
terrorist attacks.
 Uruguay calls for all cultures and peoples to
come together in a respectful dialogue so that what is
different or foreign will not be a reason for aggression,
discrimination, subjugation or hatred. We fully support
the initiative of Spain and Turkey: the Alliance of
Civilizations.
 In the view of Uruguay, peacekeeping in conflict
zones is an essential mission not only of the United
Nations, but also of all countries wishing to cooperate
in building a safer world where peace and cooperation
are the norm. Our country currently takes part in 12 of
the 15 peacekeeping missions of the Organization
deployed in Africa, America, Asia and Europe. Despite
the fact that we have only 3.5 million people, we are
the seventh largest troop contributor to those
operations and we are the greatest per-capita troop
contributor in the world.
 Uruguay has acquired experience in matters
linked to peacebuilding and reconstruction in areas
devastated by conflict, and offers electoral assistance
to States as well.
 With respect to United Nations reform, Uruguay
believes it is a priority to strengthen mechanisms to
eliminate the resort to preventive wars, interventionism
and unilateral actions that are undertaken without
taking into account the opinion of the international
community. Uruguay also expresses its full support for
the new Human Rights Council, in which we have been
honoured to serve as one of the Vice-Presidents. With
respect to Security Council reform, we hope that in the
current session we will be able to move forward on the
basis of a consensus. Uruguay supports the inclusion of
Brazil as a permanent member, as well as that of India,
Germany and Japan, and an increase in the number of
non-permanent members.
 The effectiveness of the United Nations is a topic
that concerns us. Uruguay is one of the countries that
have been chosen for the “One United Nations” pilot
plan, within the framework of the recommendations of
the High-level Panel on System-wide Coherence. The
Government of Uruguay has committed itself to
carrying out this pilot project in coordination with the
United Nations agencies in Uruguay, defining three
strategic areas as the basis of that coordination: State
reform, especially in health, education and
development strategies; decentralized development,
with civic participation; and policies to eradicate
poverty and structural inequities.
 Lastly, Uruguay believes that all United Nations
Member States must abandon patterns that date back to
the Second World War and develop organizational
standards for the General Assembly, the Security
Council and the other principal organs of the United
Nations. Member States should establish conditions
that would bring the United Nations into the twenty-
first century, thus guaranteeing peace and providing a
forum in which to promote a dignified life for peoples
along the axis of freedom, which is the basis for
justice.
"
56,2001,COM,"﻿On
behalf of the Comorian delegation, which I have the
honour to lead, and on my own behalf, I offer you, Sir,
our warmest congratulations on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at this session. We
express the ardent hope that our work, under your
enlightened leadership, will be successful.
My delegation and I pay a ringing tribute to your
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the excellent
manner in which he led the work of the previous
session. As to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
I praise the merits of that man of such great talent and
exemplary wisdom, and I also pay tribute to his
dedication to the service of our world Organization.
The Nobel Peace Prize that was awarded to him,
together with our Organization, is concrete proof of his
outstanding values.
On 11 September, the entire world was plunged
into gloom and anarchy. Terrorist networks defied the
entire international community through their
reprehensible attacks on American interests here in
New York, this global, hospitable and cosmopolitan
city — this capital of the entire world.
Thus, I cannot fail in my duty to convey, from
this rostrum, the deep sympathy and compassion of the
Government and people of the Comoros to the
American people and Government following those
painful, tragic and most unfortunate events. We offer
our most grief-stricken condolences in particular to the
families of the victims, whose terrible pain we share
following these sudden deaths.
Furthermore, we were deeply moved by the loss
of lives in the aeroplane accident that took place last
Monday here in New York. We extend our sincere
condolences to the Governments and peoples of the
United States and the Dominican Republic and to the
bereaved families.
In the course of the previous session and of the
Millennium Summit, the central role that has been and
must continue to be played by our Organization was
broadly reaffirmed in many statements. The reform of
the main organ responsible for international peace and
security to make it reflect the realities of today’s world
was seen by all to be a priority. Today more than ever
before, that role must be strengthened, because the
United Nations responsibility requires it to be better
equipped fully and effectively to assume it.
In this respect, it is appropriate to point out that
this responsibility is of a different order. Above and all,
it is the responsibility “to save succeeding generations
from the scourge of war”, to cite the expression of the
Charter that governs our institution. This primary
responsibility requires the Organization to ensure the
peace and security of peoples. Today, crises of all sorts
and the precariousness of the cause of peace in many
regions demonstrate the United Nations highly difficult
task in assuming that responsibility. The varied threats
to peace that are spreading throughout the world call
on us to focus greater attention on taking urgent
international action, for no continent is safe from the
danger.
Terrorism is one component of that danger. We
must not allow extremist groups, regardless of their
pretexts, to plunge the world into perpetual psychosis
and to claim millions of innocents as their unfortunate
victims. The attacks of 11 September were a harsh
blow for all of us, a challenge to all mankind. The
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros therefore
strongly condemned those hateful and barbarous acts,
just as it condemns terrorism in all its forms.
Thus, in the framework of mobilizing efforts to
combat terrorism, the conferences held in Doha and
Dakar last month, in which the Government of the
Comoros played an active role, reified the commitment
of the Arab world and the African continent to this
difficult but necessary struggle. In the same way, the
meeting in Brussels brought the countries of Europe
20

together in a manifestation of the continent’s abiding
concern over terrorism.
In this approach, however, it is first necessary to
define the notion of terrorism by clearly establishing
what constitutes State, group and individual terrorism.
We must then distinguish between terrorist acts and the
legitimate claims of certain peoples to their right to
self-determination, which indubitably cannot be
exercised without confrontation, since it is often met
with resistance and even oppression. Finally, it is
essential that we in no way confuse terrorism with
Islam, since we know, on the one hand, that every
terrorist act is the expression of an extremism that is by
no means linked to a given religion or nation, and that,
on the other, Islam is known for its great tolerance and
openness, advocating love of one’s fellow man, peace
and solidarity.
With respect to my country, the Islamic Federal
Republic of the Comoros, the concern of our highest
authorities vis-à-vis this problem has led them to
establish a national mechanism to combat terrorism,
which has been placed under the leadership of the
Prime Minister. In January 2000, my country also
signed the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. In addition
to such national commitments on the part of every one
of our countries, it is clear that we will need to engage
in international action by joining regional and
continental forces to fight this scourge, which threatens
world peace and destabilizes the economies of our
countries.
This requires an objective political reading of the
situation prevailing in areas of tension throughout the
world. From that perspective, the situation in the
occupied Arab territories, among other problems, calls
for our attention today. The Palestinian people has the
same right as every other nation on Earth to life,
happiness, prosperity, peace and security. That is why,
in respect for the law and in order to reach a just,
lasting and definitive solution to this problem, the
Comorian Government believes that an independent
Palestinian State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital,
is necessary. From another point of view, the United
Nations has the responsibility to safeguard the welfare
of peoples. That entails guaranteeing the conditions for
a better life by protecting fundamental human rights.
Indeed, the serious diseases affecting our
countries, in particular the developing ones; difficult
access to better education and health care; the famine
that afflicts several regions of the world; the
deterioration of our environment; and the violation of
human rights remain the major challenges to our
millennium. Some of these evils, such as famine,
serious disease and the extreme poverty afflicting many
countries, are in themselves very eloquent
manifestations of a gap between North and South that
we will ultimately have to bridge.
As to disease, AIDS is at the heart of our
discussions and concerns, because it kills, empties
entire regions and every year creates millions of
orphans whose future is bleak. Thus, in the Islamic
Federal Republic of the Comoros, despite a relatively
low rate of incidence, the Government remains aware
that the country’s geographical position and the
prevalence of tourism in our island subregion are
factors that could contribute to the rapid spread of the
disease, given the influx of tourists and seasonal
holiday-makers.
That is why our Government is devoted to
making the national programme against AIDS a useful
tool by giving it, as much as possible, the appropriate
means, with the undeniable help of the World Health
Organization and Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). The commitment of the
Government of Comoros to this fight against AIDS is
also expressed by its participation in all regional or
international measures to this effect. Thus, a delegation
from Comoros, led by His Excellency Mr. Hamada
Madi Boléro, the Prime Minister, took part last June in
the special session of the General Assembly on AIDS,
held in this city. The recommendations from that
session were borne in mind by our national authorities.
Speaking of diseases, I should not overlook
malaria, which still affects many regions. In Comoros,
it affects all layers of society and becomes a source of
major concern for the national authorities. This is why,
beyond the national provisions within the framework of
the national strategy to fight malaria, my country
welcomes the initiative to proclaim the period 2001-
2010 the Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Africa.
I spoke earlier about the gap that separates
economies of the North from those of the South. From
this point of view, the Third United Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, held in
Brussels in May 2001, is of particular interest for our
countries, and we count on more resolute commitment
21

from all of us, rich and poor countries, so that the
recommendations made on that occasion and those that
will be adopted within the framework of the conference
that is currently being held in Doha, in Qatar, will lead
to positive changes and lay a solid basis for sustainable
and effective development by revitalizing our
economies.
Our peoples expect much from our Organization,
recognized as offering the best framework to guarantee
the fundamental rights of all. This is why, confident in
the United Nations to ensure the respect for unity and
territorial integrity of our respective countries, the
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros urges our
Organization to consider the legitimate claim of the
Chinese Government with respect to the reintegration
of the Chinese province of Taiwan in its natural entity.
My country, especially sensitive to this problem, as we
ourselves have had a painful secessionist experience,
believes firmly in the need to find swift solutions to
this type of situation, which could undermine the
stability of regions.
The Millennium Summit prompted great hopes,
which we must turn into reality, in order to thus
recognize all the importance that it has in the eyes of
humanity. This means that there should be a follow-up
of the recommendations made on this occasion. We can
only strongly wish that everyone will take due account
of the true diagnosis made of our world in order to seek
together the appropriate remedies.
Everyone’s interest and survival depends on this,
because when our neighbour’s peace is threatened, no
one is safe; likewise, as long as hunger, disease,
ignorance, violence, injustice and poverty still subsist
in certain regions, they will be a cause of shame for all
humanity and a potential threat to peace and stability.
A year after the last session, during which I spoke
from this high rostrum on, among other points, the
general situation that prevailed in my country, the
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, I would like
to speak about certain aspects of the way the situation
is evolving. I am pleased to announce today that the
process of national reconciliation, led by the Head of
State of my country, His Excellency Colonel Azali
Assoumani, in which he opted for direct dialogue with
our brothers from the island of Anjouan, is making
progress daily.
Indeed, at the present time, a draft constitution,
which would govern the future of the whole of the
Comoros, has just been handed to the Head of State
and will be submitted to a referendum before the end of
this year. All of the political parties took part in
drafting this document, and we also benefited from the
assistance of the entire international community,
including the Organization of African Unity, the
Organization of la Francophonie and the League of
Arab States with respect to expertise in constitutional
law.
Alongside these efforts, provisions are being
made to prepare the upcoming elections, for which the
international community, through the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the European
Union, will also provide considerable technical
assistance.
In this transitional phase towards the
establishment of new institutions, the Government of
Comoros is not sparing any effort to improve the
current conditions in order to allow our population to
lead a decent and acceptable life. These significant
efforts must of course be supported by the international
community in order to help the social sectors in
difficulty. The great challenge for our Government, in
addition to this reconstruction now under way, remains
the achievement of harmonious social and economic
development.
This is why, on behalf of the Government of
Comoros, I launch an urgent appeal to the entire
international community to continue to provide its
valuable support in this period of national
reconciliation for the reconstruction and establishment
of institutions.
The secessionist crisis did not make us lose sight
of the problem of the Comoran island of Mayotte,
which is a major concern for the people and
Government of my country. This island of Comoros,
administered by France, is completely cut off from the
rest of the archipelago, thus limiting the free movement
of people and goods among islands and leading to
considerable human loss for people who want to reach
their families in Mayotte.
While the Government of Comoros is confident
of the willingness of the French authorities to
cooperate fully with their Comoran counterparts in
order to find a lasting and negotiated solution to the
problem of the Comoran island of Mayotte, we
reiterate our desire to see the international community
take part in this approach, out of respect for the law
22

and in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the
United Nations that admitted Comoros to the United
Nations, once the new Comoran entity is set up to
allow the return of Mayotte to its natural fold.
Lastly, I would like to extend our profound and
sincere thanks to our fraternal countries and friends, to
the partners of Comoros that accompanied us in every
way they could, in the search for a lasting solution to
the crisis that has shaken our country and is still
present in our struggle to preserve and perpetuate the
precious gains that we have made from the change of
30 April 1999. May all the crises that are affecting the
world today see a fortunate conclusion in the interest of
our peoples.






"
56,2001,RWA,"﻿It is a
great honour for me, on behalf of the Rwandan
delegation, to join previous speakers in extending from
this rostrum of the United Nations our sincere and
warm congratulations to Mr. Han Seung-soo on his
election as President of the General Assembly at the
fifty-sixth session. I should also like to take this
opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute to his
predecessor for the farsightedness with which he led
the work of the fifty-fifth session of the General
Assembly.
I also wish, on behalf of my Government, to
extend my warm congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan on
his re-election as Secretary-General of our
Organization. His remarkable efforts in strengthening
the role of the United Nations and his numerous
initiatives to resolve conflicts have been eloquently
attested to by his election to a second term of office,
and even more by the Nobel Peace Prize that has just
been awarded to him.
This session began in a very tragic climate in the
wake of the cowardly and ignoble acts orchestrated by
enemies of international peace and security. Those
terrorist acts led to the deaths of thousands of innocent
victims in the cities of New York and Washington. This
was a very heavy blow to the Government and the
20

people of the United States and also a challenge to the
United Nations and to the entire international
community.
The Government of Rwanda learned of these
ignoble acts with indignation and consternation, and
has presented its condolences to the American
Government and the families directly affected. The
Rwandan Government reiterates its condemnation of
terrorism and remains open to all initiatives designed
to combat all forms of terrorism. It is in this spirit that
my country unreservedly supports all the resolutions
adopted against terrorism, in particular resolution 1373
(2001) of 28 September, and we reaffirm our
determination to implement them.
The acts of 11 September 2001 are a challenge to
the United Nations and to each of its Member States.
Since the United Nations is the crucible of international
peace and security, and since terrorist groups take
innocent human lives, it is up to every Member State,
every truly human organization and every person who
cherishes peace and justice to fight as vigorously as
possible against such a terrorist group, no matter what
its pretext, no matter how powerful it may be. When
we say no matter how powerful, we know what we are
saying, having been victims ourselves.
We were victims of the terror not of just any
organization, but of a State that in reality became a
non-State, but with all the State machinery available to
it to fight the very people whose protection was its
most fundamental duty. Rwanda and its people lived
under the terror of a murderous, terrorist and genocidal
State for three months. This reign of terror by a State,
as the Assembly well knows, took more than 1 million
human lives in 1994. The instruments of this blind,
merciless terror, whose overwhelming result was
genocide, are well known: the organization of
paramilitary militias commonly known as the
Interahamwe, and the former Rwandese Armed Forces,
known as the ex-FAR. From this rostrum we call for
these two organizations, which for a decade have been
veritable killing machines, to be duly listed as terrorist
groups to be fought and pursued throughout the world.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, which
since 1994 has been harbouring these forces of evil,
has fed them, has provided them with arms and
munitions and has allied itself with them, must respond
to the Security Council’s repeated appeals to stop all
support for the negative forces on its territories,
including the Interahamwe and ex-Far, which planned
and carried out genocide in Rwanda.
With regard to peace in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and throughout the Great Lakes region in
Africa, my country is determined to implement the
Lusaka Agreement, which, with respect to the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, has two important
components: the inter-Congolese dialogue, which
should lead to a political solution to the Congolese
crisis, and the disarmament and withdrawal of negative
forces, which should lead to peace on the Rwandan,
Ugandan and Burundi borders of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo.
We wish to note with great satisfaction, the
actions of the sisterly Republic of South Africa, which,
given the failure of inter-Congolese dialogue in Addis
Ababa — because of, among other things, lack of
financial resources — generously offered food and
lodging to over 300 Congolese delegates going to that
greatly anticipated inter-Congolese forum. We wish
also to congratulate the Rassemblement congolais pour
la démocratie (RCD)-Goma and the Mouvement pour
la libération du Congo (MLC)-Gbadolite on their fine
initiative to create a special force to carry out the
disarmament and disengagement of negative forces
under their control on the territory of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, and on having invited the
Kinshasa Government to join this initiative.
Regarding human rights, we would like to
reaffirm our attachment to the rule of law in
international relations. We are determined to strengthen
the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms. The Government of Rwanda
welcomed with great interest the report on human
rights in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is
regrettable, however, that the Special Rapporteur,
Mr. Roberto Garretn, was not present when the report
was submitted on 8 November 2001. Because of his
absence, no real debate between the parties concerned
and the Rapporteur was possible. Once again, my
delegation finds this highly regrettable.
The report on human rights in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo contains numerous gratuitous
allegations, including one on the alleged annexation of
that country. We would like to recall here that the
regular Rwandan army did not cross borders into the
Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to annex
the country, as the report claims, but, as we have
21

explained and demonstrated a number of times, to
ensure the security of our territory and our population.
We acted in the context “of the inherent right of
individual ... self-defence” of a country, as we are
authorized to do under Chapter VII, Article 51 of the
Charter.
Indeed, security in the north of Rwanda has been
and continues to be constantly disrupted by the ex-FAR
and the Interahamwe militia that committed the
genocide in 1994 and that are using Congolese territory
as their rear base in order to repeat their gruesome
deeds. These armed groups are infiltrating Rwanda and
killing thousands of innocent people. We hope that
phase III of the United Nations Organization Mission
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC),
in close cooperation with the initiative of the RCD
Goma-MLC Gbadolite, will lead to the complete
disarmament of these groups and to stability and peace
in the Great Lakes region.
We are pleased to note the establishment of a
Transitional Government in Burundi. We believe that
this is a major step towards the reconciliation to which
our brothers, the people of Burundi, aspire. Today the
Great Lakes region is seeking solutions to the conflicts
that undermine it. May the example of Burundi, under
the inspiration of President Nelson Mandela, bear fruit
in the general interest and for the benefit of the people
of Burundi and Africa as a whole.
Also regarding Africa, we feel that a definitive
solution to the problem of Western Sahara should also
be found.
We would like to see peace in the Middle East.
The question of Palestinian refugees, which is several
decades old, needs to be re-examined. Indeed, the
existence of an independent Palestinian State,
alongside an independent Israeli State assured of its
existence as such is necessary for peace in the Middle
East. The friends of the Israelis and the Palestinians
within the United Nations, including us, ought rather at
this stage to work on cultivating and strengthening
relations of friendship and cooperation between these
two fraternal States — the Israeli State and the
Palestinian State. We are anxious to start work on this
noble task.
Aside from Africa and the Middle East, we are
pleased to note the significant progress made on the
Korean peninsula, where both Koreas have shown
encouraging signs of reaching a final settlement of a
conflict arose in the context of the cold war.
This fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly
is the first after the Millennium Summit, and thus
should follow it up and lay the new foundation for the
future of mankind. The Summit stressed, among the
values that underpin international relations and respect
for the fundamental principles of the Charter, the role
that the United Nations ought to play and
recommended the creation of a propitious climate for
the development of the least developed countries that
were not yet on the path towards globalization.
Throughout this general debate poverty and the
problem of debt have been stressed as major obstacles
to development and thus to entry into the era of
globalization. Globalization, with its advantages for
some and problems for others, does not seem to be able
to resolve the problem of the gap between the rich and
poor countries. To the contrary, the gap between them
continues to grow. The marginalization of poor
countries in international trade and the debt burden
have severely hampered their efforts for development
and have exacerbated their poverty. This is why the
United Nations needs to define policies for the
development of all and adopt international measures to
support poor countries in the field of investment. Such
measures should also be aimed at cancelling debt and
ensuring adequate integration of these countries into
the world economy.
In this context, we call on the United Nations to
reconsider the report submitted to the Security Council
by the Independent Inquiry led by Mr. Carlsson, former
Prime Minister of Sweden, on which there has been no
follow-up to date. As a Member of the United Nations,
we believe that the Organization to which we belong
should undertake a follow-up to this report that defines
well the need for economic and social reconstruction in
post-genocide Rwanda.


"
56,2001,MMR,"﻿On behalf of the
delegation of the Union of Myanmar, I wish to extend
our warmest congratulations to Mr. Han Seung-soo on
his well-deserved election to the presidency of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. His
election to this high office reflects the trust and
confidence of all the Member States in his diplomatic
skills and leadership qualities and in his ability to
guide our deliberations to successful conclusions. It is
also a tribute to his country, the Republic of Korea,
which is at the forefront in our common efforts to
achieve the goals of the Organization. In the discharge
of his heavy responsibilities, may I assure him of our
full support and cooperation.
I also wish to express our deep appreciation to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, for his able
leadership and valuable contribution during the fifty-
fifth session of the General Assembly.
May I also take this opportunity to congratulate
our Secretary-General on his re-election to lead the
Organization for a second term. I also wish to pay
tribute to him for his tireless efforts and far-sighted
initiatives to strengthen the United Nations. The award
of the Nobel Peace Prize to our Secretary-General and
to the Organization is well-deserved recognition in this
regard.
The international community was greatly shocked
by the recent horrendous terrorist attacks in the United
States of America. We are profoundly saddened by the
enormous loss of lives and property. We join the
international community in extending our deep
condolences to the people of the United States in
general and the bereaved families in particular.
Wherever and by whomever committed, terrorism in
any form or under any circumstances is unjustifiable.
As a nation that has had bitter experiences with
terrorism, both on its own soil and against its aircraft
and diplomatic service abroad, Myanmar is against
terrorism in all forms and manifestations.
The challenges of combating terrorism are both
difficult and complex. Therefore, it is essential that the
international community come together under the aegis
of the United Nations to overcome the enormous
challenge.
In this regard, I commend the Secretary-General
for organizing a treaty event at United Nations
Headquarters from 10 to 16 November 2001. Myanmar
is already a party to 4 of the 12 conventions on
terrorism, and on 12 November we signed the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism and acceded to the International
Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings.
In the aftermath of the economic crisis of 1997,
Asian countries are still striving to return to a path of
sustained growth. However, the current slowdown in
the major economies of the world is threatening to
negate whatever progress they have made. As these
economies continue with structural reforms to sustain
their economic recovery, they are confronted with an
17

international economic and trading environment that is
not very encouraging.
This situation is creating difficulties, especially
for many developing countries and economies in
transition. Commodity prices are declining due to
weakening world demand. External financing
conditions are also worsening. Factors such as
indebtedness, declining official development assistance
and low levels of domestic and foreign investment
continue to undermine the programmes of the most
vulnerable States. It is against this unfavourable
backdrop that Myanmar is striving to achieve economic
development of the country.
There are also hindrances to our efforts to
promote the well-being of our people, such as denial of
official development assistance and the application of
unilateral and coercive economic measures. However,
we are resolute in our efforts to achieve our goals by
relying on our domestic resources and internal strength
and by putting our comparative advantages to optimum
use. Our sustained national efforts for development
have resulted in 8.4 per cent average annual growth
during the last five-year plan, resulting in a substantial
increase in per capita income and in better living
standards for the people.
In their respective endeavours to bring about
economic development and social progress, the
developing countries continue to face formidable
challenges. The debt burden, the declining flow of
official development assistance, the lack of market
access and access to technology, and the decline in
foreign direct investment continue to persist. The
United Nations must play a central role in helping
those countries to help themselves.
In this regard, we recognize the important role of
United Nations funds and programmes in international
cooperation for development. However, their important
role should not be undermined by practices that are not
in conformity with the principles underpinning the
operation of those funds and programmes. Moreover,
they should not be used as a platform for exerting
pressure on a country that needs and deserves
international cooperation in its development efforts.
While acknowledging the role of various funds
and programmes, we are particularly appreciative of
the important role of the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP). In United Nations operational
activities for development, UNDP serves as the
principal instrument for capacity-building in
developing countries. Myanmar regrets, however, that
the United Nations Development Programme is not
allowed to have a country programme for Myanmar.
While UNDP continues its useful activities in
Myanmar, it is, however, prohibited from promoting
capacity-building for reasons other than those for
which UNDP was created.
In the present context of an extremely difficult
economic and trading environment, the denial of the
right of development to a country in need of
international cooperation is a matter that deserves
appropriate redress.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic poses a serious
challenge to the international community. The response
of the international community and the efforts being
made at the national, regional and international levels
to counter this global threat are very encouraging.
However, the real challenge for us is the high level of
resources needed to combat this disease effectively. It
is therefore most welcome that a global AIDS and
health fund has been established. With the
determination and will that has been demonstrated in
current efforts, and strengthened with adequate
resources, we are convinced that we will eventually
win this war on HIV/AIDS. Myanmar fully recognizes
the nature and gravity of the HIV/AIDS problem, is
taking the necessary actions at the national level and is
enhancing our cooperation at the regional and
international levels.
Let me take this opportunity to apprise the
Assembly of the political situation in our country. As
the Assembly is aware, Myanmar is in the process of
establishing a multiparty democracy with a sound
economy. All of the measures that we have taken are
directed towards that end in a focused manner. This is
the course of action which we will pursue steadfastly to
its logical end - that is, until democracy is firmly
established. We have learned from bitter experience, as
well as from the lessons of other countries with similar
experiences, and we are taking great care to ensure that
the transition to a new system is peaceful, smooth and
effective and that the foundations we are striving to lay
are placed on firm ground.
We have also been taking effective measures for
national reconciliation. We have reached arrangements
with 17 out of 18 armed groups, who are now joining
hands with the Government in national development
18

endeavours. In the same vein, we are also making
national reconciliation efforts with the political parties.
Here, let me stress what the Secretary-General has so
rightly outlined in his report. Our national
reconciliation efforts are home-grown, and our goal of
building a peaceful and democratic society can be
successfully achieved only by the people of Myanmar.
Myanmar continues to make relentless efforts to
combat the scourge of narcotic drugs. We have made
considerable headway in the suppression of opium and
heroin. The latest figures show that opium production
has declined by 38 per cent. To achieve this, we tackled
the problem in a holistic manner. We have strengthened
our legislation; we have enhanced our enforcement
capacity; and we have combined these measures with a
development programme to find alternative livelihoods
for people in remote areas, so that they do not have to
resort to growing opium.
While we are taking effective measures against
the cultivation, production and trafficking of the opium
poppy, we are also taking action against the danger of
amphetamine-type stimulants, which are relatively new
but equally dangerous narcotic drugs. Due to their
availability and affordable price, the widespread use of
these stimulants among young people has led to an
alarming situation in our subregion. This situation calls
for renewed efforts at the national level and for
stepped-up cooperation at the subregional level.
To enhance cooperation at the regional level,
ministers from Myanmar, China, Thailand and Laos
met in Beijing in August and agreed to cooperate
closely to fight the problem. Our efforts have achieved
tangible results: the seizure of drugs and the arrest of
the traffickers involved.
Myanmar fully understands how important and
urgent it is to combat this scourge afflicting mankind.
We have made a firm commitment at the highest
political level and are determined to translate these
commitments into practical and effective measures
within the set time-frame.
I wish to inform the Assembly that we have also
enhanced our cooperation with the United Nations
system. We continue our cooperation with Mr. Razali
Ismail, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, who
completed his fifth visit to the country in August.
Another visit towards the end of this year has also been
agreed to. Mr. Paulo Sergio Pinheiro, Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights,
visited the country twice earlier this year.
Determined to resolve the issue of forced labour,
Myanmar is fully cooperating with the International
Labour Organization (ILO). In September 2001, an
ILO high-level team paid a three-week visit to
Myanmar to objectively assess the practical
implementation and actual impact of the legislative,
executive and administrative measures adopted by the
Government to eliminate the practice of forced labour.
The Government extended its full cooperation to the
team in arranging its meetings in Myanmar and its fact-
finding trips to various parts of the country identified
by it. What was most important, we gave the team
unfettered freedom and unlimited access to carry out its
mandate successfully.
Let me now make a few observations concerning
the work of the Organization. Last year, our heads of
State and Government and leaders gathered in the
General Assembly Hall and charted a road-map to
guide our future actions. All our work and energy must
be directed towards effectively using that road-map to
achieve a peaceful and developed world. Peace and the
development of nations are the twin objectives of our
Organization. While globalization has, to a
considerable degree, reduced our planet to the village
level, the issues we face in achieving peace and
development are global in scale and complexity. As we
are acutely aware, no one country is capable of
resolving those issues on its own. It is only through
concerted efforts and genuine partnerships that we will
be able to address those issues of a global scale.
We believe that as the only universal forum with
the most comprehensive mandate, the United Nations
must play a central role and coordinate our actions in
those efforts. At the same time, the United Nations
must be further strengthened and vitalized to be able to
carry out its global mission effectively and
expeditiously. That will require the further
strengthening of its organs and institutions. For our
part, we must provide the Organization with the
resources and the level of support needed to implement
its mandate. It is also vitally important to give real
effect to our pledges through concrete actions if our
Organization is to be successful in building a world of
peace and development."
56,2001,PHL,"﻿Let me begin by
congratulating Your Excellency, Mr. Han Seung-soo,
on your election as President of the General Assembly.
I am especially gratified to be addressing the Assembly
when a distinguished Asian is again at its helm.
I congratulate as well His Excellency Mr. Kofi
Annan on the Nobel Prize that he, together with the
United Nations, has received. That prize constitutes
recognition by the international community of the
indispensable role of the United Nations and of the
necessary work it has done on the Secretary-General’s
watch towards world peace and justice.
At the most elemental level, we feel most deeply
the sad and tragic impact of the recent inhuman acts of
terrorism: the lost lives, the orphaned children, the
widowed spouses, the parents struck with the
unimaginable grief of outliving their children and,
worse yet, of watching them die. As we watched the
horror unfold, we felt as though it were happening to
us — as indeed it was, for the United Nations is in a
sense one family. The blow that was struck at this
international city of New York was felt as directly by
the rest of the world. As people the world over stopped
to watch in horror as the twin towers came down, the
world’s economies ground to a virtual halt.
Business activity stopped, investments were
withdrawn, markets shrank, tourism dried up, more
jobs were lost, living standards dropped even further,
destitution spread and the very conditions that favour
terrorism spread and deepened. Our misgivings about a
world slowdown deepened into certainty about a
recession that will be felt most deeply by those least
able to endure it: not just classes but whole countries.
The average growth rate in the gross domestic product
of developing countries could fall from last year’s 5.5
per cent to 2.9 per cent. For most poor countries, that
will translate to sub-zero growth.
The face of terrorism that this city saw over a
month ago is a familiar one to Asians. It has taken a
terrible toll in terms of the lives of our people and the
economies of the region. It has destroyed our credit and
has deterred investment. It has caused Asian
Governments profound embarrassment at being caught
flat-footed and unable to offer their citizens the most
basic security. In the south-western part of the
Philippines, it has taxed our resources and our patience
to the limit, for terrorism is the argument of those who
are not really interested in reasoning but only in getting
whatever they want on their terms alone.
We know terrorism. We are fighting it in the
south-western Philippines. The perpetrators of the first
attack on the World Trade Center were apprehended by
our police. Rather than dismembering our country and
dispossessing our people of their homes, we have been
negotiating with secessionist groups. But we have
thrown the full weight of the law, including the use of
force, at those who have resorted to terrorism. We
know the enemy, and we know that these are not people
you talk to; these are people you fight. As the
Secretary-General has pointed out, there are those who
will hate and who will kill even if every injustice is
ended. You must fight them in the field, when they take
to the field and hunt them in cities when they hide
inside.
It was in the light of that experience in the south-
western Philippines that we immediately condemned
the terrorist attacks on the United States, for we
recognized them immediately as desperate and
despicable acts by that violent minority which seeks to
enslave the world with fear. And indeed, they have
given the world good reason to be afraid. The attack on
the World Trade Center, which aimed to take the lives
of the 50,000 people who worked inside it, shows us an
enemy without pity, without compunction and prepared
to use any means to achieve the greatest destruction.
The Philippines did not need to join the war on
terrorism: it was in that war already, in the south-
western part of our islands. The Philippines could not
have done otherwise than to renew its commitment to
fight terrorism in a wider field in the wake of 11
September. We know that this is an enemy that must be
9

fought everywhere so that it cannot again strike at will
anywhere it pleases.
This is a fight between tolerance and bigotry,
between reason and fanaticism, between law and
anarchy, between justice and murder pretending to be
just. In this fight, there is no side to choose but the one
where the civilized nations of the world — long-time
allies and former enemies — have chosen to stand
united, not least here in this Hall.
The Secretary-General has declared that the 11
September attacks struck at everything our
Organization stands for: peace, freedom, tolerance,
human rights, and the very idea of a united human
family.
I do not know if the future belongs to our side,
but I am convinced that there will be no future if our
side does not prevail in this fight — at least, no future
that any of us would care to live in. In fact, it would
not be a future in which most of us would be allowed
to live. It would be a future where happiness was
suspect, delight was blasphemy, beauty was a cause for
shame and independent thought a capital crime.
But while terrorism cannot be placated, and no
terrorist should be appeased, there is no doubt in our
minds, either, that we must address the concerns that
they pretend are the inspiration for their terrible deeds.
If the world can show that it will carry on, that it
will persevere in creating a stronger, more just, more
benevolent and more genuine international community
across all lines of religion and race, then terrorism will
have failed.
No, terrorism will not stop, but it will have failed.
To stop terrorism, the terrorists themselves will have to
be stopped. What we can do, however, is to strip them
of their moral pretensions and take upon ourselves the
causes that they have perverted.
No nation will indefinitely endure the yawning
gap between rich and poor — a gap that is only
growing bigger, not just within, but across the
countries of the world. It is this growing disparity
between the ever fewer rich and the ever-increasing
poor that has given terrorism the freedom of movement
and impunity from accountability that it has enjoyed.
Poverty can be reduced partly by national
economic growth. But, more than that, societies have to
adopt deliberate policies to ensure that the income
levels of the poor rise faster than those of the rich.
Recent developments in the global economy have
displayed the perils of overdependence on external
markets. We must expand domestic demand and
increase the purchasing power of the masses of our
people.
This is largely the responsibility of each nation.
We in the Philippines are addressing the affront of
mass poverty through housing, education, lower
medical costs, more efficient power, transportation and
communications, infrastructure in the countryside,
credit to small farmers and micro-industries,
productivity, protection of the environment, and
development of the areas farthest from our centre of
political power and economic activity.
The international community also has a
responsibility in the elimination of poverty.
Commitments to devote a certain percentage of gross
domestic product to official development assistance
have a place. But the most effective, and least costly,
anti-poverty measure on a global scale is for developed
countries to open their markets wider to the products of
the developing countries, including in particular those
products turned out by poor people in the poor
countries — agricultural commodities, textiles,
clothing and footwear, as well as electrical and
electronic appliances and components.
The global trading system cannot allow
developed countries to subsidize heavily their
agricultural exports while the developing countries are
without the means to help their own farmers.
The recent Ministerial Meeting of the World
Trade Organization (WTO) decided to launch a new
round of multilateral trade negotiations. To ensure that
the WTO does not lose credibility at this crucial time,
our top priority is to ensure that the Doha round is truly
a development round.
The effort to conquer poverty must embrace all
cultures, all ethnic groups and all religious
communities. Nations must allow all to preserve their
own cultures.
We must make political autonomy accessible to
regions that want it. At the same time, no one must be
allowed to resort to terrorism to further political aims.
10

Respect for culture and religion, resources for
development, openness to political autonomy within
the sovereignty of the nation and rejection of terrorism
are the foundations of the Philippine approach to our
ethnic diversity and to the uplifting of our Muslim and
tribal minorities.
The vision of nations where poverty is rapidly
reduced cannot be attained in places where women and
girls are mistreated and their rights trampled upon. As
a woman head of State, woman head of Government
and woman Commander-in-Chief of the world’s
fourteenth largest nation, I say: we cannot conquer
poverty without liberating women and girls where they
are oppressed. The gender gap is a part of the
development gap and must be addressed with equal
vigour.
The fight against terrorism, the struggle to
eliminate poverty, the work on behalf of social and
international justice, the strengthening of the rule of
law, the promotion of tolerance and mutual respect, the
practice of humanitarian compassion, the liberation of
women, the never-ending quest for peace — these have
long been on the United Nations agenda. We in the
Philippines have been doing this in our region, in
cooperation with our neighbours.
The heightened virulence of terrorism, the
renewed sense of insecurity among the world’s peoples
and the alarming slowdown in the global economy
have intensified the urgency and importance of our
work. Together, let us get on with the job. It is serious.
It is essential. It is urgent.

"
56,2001,MRT,"﻿I
am delighted to be able to congratulate you, Sir, on
behalf of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania, on your election to the presidency of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. We are
certain that your experience and wisdom will indeed
guarantee success at this session.
I also avail myself of this opportunity to express
my gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri,
for his skilful and distinguished guidance of the work
of the past session. This is also an opportunity for me
to extend our heartfelt congratulations to the Secretary-
General and the entire United Nations staff on their
tireless efforts to achieve the noble objectives of our
Organization. Those efforts have quite rightly been
recognized by the Nobel Academy, which decided to
award the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize jointly to the
Secretary-General and the United Nations. This
distinction reflects the most striking recognition of the
efforts undertaken by our Organization to strengthen
international peace and security. It also constituted
recognition of the personal merits and contributions of
the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. Moreover, the
re-election of the Secretary-General to a second term
reflected the satisfaction of the international
community.
This session is taking place in a climate of
sadness in the aftermath of the criminal attacks on New
York and on Washington, D.C., with their heavy toll of
thousands of innocent lives. The moment they were
perpetrated, Mauritania voiced its absolute
condemnation of those terrorist acts. My country
reaffirms its condolences to the people and the
Government of the United States. These tragic events
have cast light on a new situation: terrorism is no
longer a marginal phenomenon but is rather a key
problem that knows no boundaries and that can be
combated only by means of a global strategy.
Mauritania continues to be an active participant in all
regional and international activities aimed at a
concerted and comprehensive fight against that
phenomenon. In that context, we reaffirm our
unreserved support for all relevant resolutions, along
with our determination, specifically, to implement
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) of 28
September.
It is obvious that the role and international
legitimacy of the United Nations in bringing about
international peace, security and stability must be
enhanced. No one must suggest that fighting terrorism
is a campaign by one civilization against another, or
the supposed supremacy of one civilization over any
other. To the contrary, we must act together to show
that the endeavour to eliminate terrorism marks a new
phase in humankind’s march forward, building on the
heritage of all civilizations and converging in an
17

expression of our common aspiration to a secure life
and a better future.
In that connection, my country notes with
satisfaction the sustained efforts and the success of
repeated appeals to bring peace to the Middle East so
that the peoples of that region can live in peace,
security and prosperity. We hope that the peace process
will be resumed in accordance with the principles
enunciated at the Madrid Conference, in keeping with
the principle of land for peace, and in conformity with
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973)
and 425 (1978), thus bringing about the complete
withdrawal of Israel from all Arab territories occupied
in 1967 and the establishment of an independent
Palestinian State with its capital in the holy city of Al-
Quds Al-Sharif.
We express our hope for a return to stability and
concord in the Gulf region, consistent with
international legality and with respect for the
independence and territorial integrity of Kuwait, as
well as with respect for the unity and territorial
integrity of Iraq. In that context, we call for the lifting
of the embargo that has been imposed for more than 10
years on the fraternal Iraqi people, who have suffered
immensely from that embargo.
With respect to Western Sahara, my country
supports the efforts of the Secretary-General and of his
Personal Envoy, Mr. James A. Baker III, to guarantee
stability in the area through a final solution that would
enjoy the support of all parties concerned.
Turning to developments in the Lockerbie crisis,
we welcome the success of diplomatic initiatives, but
at the same time feel that the Security Council should
act to lift the embargo imposed on Libya.
We hail everything that has been done to resolve
conflicts and wars on the African continent, which
have stymied development efforts there. We welcome
the recent all-Africa development initiative and the
support it has won from our development partners in
terms, inter alia, of sources of financing.
It has now been proven that phenomena such as
violence and extremism are the outgrowth of poverty
and frustration. The international community must
therefore go further to demonstrate its solidarity and
help achieve social development throughout the world.
Developing countries hope for a greater, more reliable
spirit of solidarity that is expressed in deeds. They
need increased support from the rich countries in the
form of greater investment and the opening up of
international markets to products from the developing
world.
We must recall too that debt continues to be
among the major obstacles to progress in the
economies of developing countries and a handicap to
economic development.
Notwithstanding the scope of the challenges and
the unfavourable international situation, the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania, under the enlightened
leadership of His Excellency President Maaouya Ould
Sid’ Ahmed Taya, has made major strides towards
sustainable development, with a view to improving the
standard of living of our people, achieving social
advancement and consolidating democracy and the rule
of law in a climate of peace, security and stability.
Pluralistic democracy has been restored in full with the
holding some weeks ago of our fifth municipal
elections and our third legislative elections. Among the
latest reforms are the introduction of proportional
representation, which has made possible the
involvement of all parties and which has expanded the
voter base and involvement in political life. Observers
and opposition parties praised the conduct and the
outcome of the elections. The broadest possible
participation by the people is the best guarantee of
success in the fight against poverty, illiteracy and
exclusion. This has strengthened our conviction that
true enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms depends on the ability of the people to take
part in economic, social and cultural decisions.
A purpose of the Charter of the United Nations is
to realize our common goals. Now more than ever, we
must make an effort to live up to our Charter
commitments in order to bring about a new world
based on law and justice, guaranteeing peace, security
and solidarity.



















"
56,2001,UZB,"﻿Allow me to convey our sincere congratulations to
Mr. Kofi Annan on the occasion of his re-election to
the post of Secretary-General, as well as on winning
the Nobel Peace Prize for 2001. We also congratulate
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election as President of the
General Assembly at the current session and we join
those who have already expressed gratitude to
Mr. Harri Holkeri for his excellent organization of the
fifty-fifth session, which went down in the history of
international relations as the Millennium Assembly.
This session of the General Assembly is taking
place in special circumstances. There is no doubt that
the tragic events of 11 September represent an
objective reality that has prompted the international
community to critically reassess the situation, which
requires the elaboration of common positions in the
combat against international terrorism, based on the
provisions of the United Nations Charter on
safeguarding comprehensive peace and security.
Today, it is evident that terrorism is related to
extremism of every stripe — political, religious and
ethnic — as well as to separatism and drug trafficking.
These are the principle threats to the present and future
of humankind, a plague of the twenty-first century that
can enter any household. No one carries insurance
against this evil.
The international community is becoming
increasingly aware of the indivisibility of security. In
accordance with this fundamental principle and in view
of the current international situation, Uzbekistan
commits itself to go all the way in its fight against
terrorism as a global phenomenon. Only through joint,
coordinated efforts of the entire international
community can we eradicate this evil. No one has the
right to stand aloof from this battle.
We are acutely aware that, today, it is absolutely
unacceptable to content ourselves with mere
declarations and statements. It is time we supported our
words with action. Before it is too late, we must take
this opportunity to quit the cautious and defensive
stance adopted in the struggle against international
terrorism and to go on the offensive.
Such an approach is also dictated by a simple and
obvious truth: it is impossible to come to an agreement
with terrorists. Not only modern experience in
combating terrorism but also the experience of history
attest to this fact. The only way to deal with terrorists
is to isolate them and stand up to them in the most
uncompromising and resolute way.
Given the nature of international terrorism and its
extensive organizational and financial network as well
as its considerable material and technical resources, it
is essential to devise a global counter-terrorist strategy
that will clearly define the following: first, the
parameters of an effective legal framework as well as
the organizational foundations for international
cooperation in this area; and secondly, forms of
concrete joint action at both the global and regional
levels as well as on a bilateral basis.
Recent events have demonstrated clearly that
terrorism is the most dangerous and treacherous enemy
13

of the international community. I think it may be
relevant to remind Members of the address that the
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Mr. Karimov,
made to the General Assembly on 8 September 2000
from this rostrum. He sounded the alarm, trying to
draw the attention of the international community to
the
“... war in Afghanistan, which has continued for
more than 20 years ... Afghanistan has become a
training ground and hotbed of international
terrorism and extremism, and the main source and
the warehouse of world drug production, which
earns billions of dollars and fuels international
terrorism.” (A/55/PV.7, p. 15)
He also emphasized that this is “a threat to the security
not only of the States of Central Asia, but of the whole
world”. He unambiguously pointed to the particular
danger that the world would face if the terrorists were
to gain access to deadly weapons such as chemical,
biological and other forms of weapons of mass
destruction. Here it is pertinent to ask: Was this not a
timely appeal?
Uzbekistan has been actively engaged in
cooperation with the anti-terrorist coalition. We
consider the anti-terrorist operation in Afghanistan as,
first and foremost, a means to destroy the terrorist
bases and camps in that country as well as to eradicate
conditions favourable to terrorist activity.
The Uzbek people, being heirs to the great
Muslim culture and having made a major contribution
to the development and flourishing of Islamic
civilization, realize that this operation is not directed
against either the people of Afghanistan or the religion
of Islam. War has been declared against terrorists and
their centres and training grounds, not against the
peaceful population.
Uzbekistan and Afghanistan have a long history
of neighbourly and mutually beneficial relations going
back to antiquity. The Amu Darya River has always
united us, not separated us. Uzbekistan has never had a
conflict either with the Afghan people or with
Afghanistan as a State.
The civil war in Afghanistan, which has
continued for three decades and reached its apogee
during the short period of Taliban rule, has destroyed
the country’s economy and caused the Afghan people
great distress, and it is a threat to the very existence of
Afghanistan as an unified State. We support the efforts
of the international community aimed at immediate
measures to adopt large-scale programmes for the post-
conflict rehabilitation of Afghanistan and concrete
humanitarian aid for those who urgently need such
assistance in their plight.
Uzbekistan, in close collaboration with the
United Nations, is already actively participating in the
delivery of international humanitarian aid to
Afghanistan. For this purpose, we have provided all the
necessary infrastructure, including that in the city of
Termez, in immediate proximity to the border of
Afghanistan.
Finally, in light of the latest events, including
both the acts of terror in the United States and the start
of the anti-terrorist operation in Afghanistan, I would
like to draw the attention of participants in this session
to the Uzbek proposal to establish within the United
Nations system an international centre to combat
terrorism as a realistic mechanism for taking a
collective stand against terrorist aggression.
In discussing the organization of the international
struggle against terrorism, we should not forget yet
another equally dangerous threat — drug trafficking,
the main financial support for terrorist and extremist
activities. In recent years, the States of Central Asia
have found themselves practically face to face with
large-scale aggression unleashed by the international
narcotics syndicates. It is perfectly clear that no single
country, no matter how powerful its resources, can
hope to confront drug trafficking successfully unless it
enjoys the broad support of the international
community. In our view, international cooperation
should be based on mechanisms that are adapted as
much as possible to the current situation and are
capable not only of neutralizing existing sources of
narco-aggression but also, and more important, of
preventing them from emerging.
Recognizing the urgent need to intensify the
international struggle to face common threats,
Uzbekistan accords great significance to the issue of
the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in
Central Asia. Given the unstable military and political
situation in the region, this problem is emerging as a
real threat of continental and global proportions.
In this respect, the functional capabilities of the
Central Asian nuclear-weapon-free zone — an
initiative put forward by Uzbekistan at the forty-eighth
14

session of the General Assembly in the spirit of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty — are of particular
importance. We much appreciate the efforts of the
United Nations in supporting the activities of the
Regional Group of Experts who are working on the text
of the nuclear-weapon-free zone treaty, and we call
upon the General Assembly, its President and the
Secretary-General to lend their support to the process
of formalizing and adopting decisions on this issue.
Uzbekistan supports the provisions in the report
of the United Nations Secretary-General concerning the
prevention of armed conflict. We consider them to be
fundamental guidelines for consultations on this issue.
We also stand for the earliest completion of the
United Nations reform process. We welcome certain
areas of progress in the work of the Security Council
with regard to ensuring its transparency, the
enlargement of its membership and other matters
related to enhancing its effectiveness. With a view to
increasing the effectiveness of the United Nations and
in the interests of preventing and settling crisis
situations, it is extremely important to intensify
collaboration between the United Nations and regional
security institutions, as well as to enhance the work of
its own regional offices.
Uzbekistan has an interest in developing and
enhancing dialogue and cooperation with all States that
display an interest in strengthening peace and stability
at the regional and global levels.






"
56,2001,AGO,"﻿Allow me to
start by congratulating you, Mr. President, on behalf of
my Government and myself, on your election to the
presidency of the United Nations General Assembly.
Your election is an acknowledgement of the many
contributions made by the Republic of Korea to United
Nations efforts to maintain international peace and
security, as well as to promote the economic and social
development of our peoples.
This session is being held during a period of
major challenges to our Organization and the
international community in general.
Peace and security continue to be endangered by
many armed conflicts, particularly in Africa, as well as
by terrorist activities launched systematically or
sporadically against some countries. Extreme poverty
and misery still affect large numbers of the world
population, especially in my continent, where one
fourth of our 800 million inhabitants survive on less
than $1 per day. The HIV/AIDS epidemic, now
affecting more than 36 million people, most of them
economically active people, may seriously threaten the
economic development and future of many societies
unless urgent measures are taken.
To face these and many other challenges, the
United Nations must continue to improve its internal
structure, including the Security Council, whose
membership must be reconsidered to allow for a more
equitable geographic balance. In addition, its working
methods should be restructured to ensure effective
implementation of its decisions.
The United Nations must also endeavour to
implement the action plans and recommendations
adopted over the last decade, with a view to resolving
problems in the areas of HIV/AIDS, social
development, human rights, racism and racial
discrimination, as well as terrorism.
At the last session of the General Assembly, my
Government voted in favour of resolution 55/158, on
measures to eliminate international terrorism. We
continue to believe that its implementation will be
essential to fighting this enemy. Terrorism is an
international scourge with many faces. No country is
immune to this heinous evil, and to fight it, we must
cooperate at the bilateral, regional and international
levels, under the leadership of the United Nations.
Angola reiterates its firm condemnation of the 11
September terrorist attacks, which victimized
thousands of innocent civilians and endorses the use of
force to eliminate terrorist networks and their support
bases.
Having been subjected to terrorism for many
years, Angola is pleased to join all other States in this
anti-terrorist campaign. In this context, we have joined
the other members of the Southern Africa Development
Council to promote a forum to discus and identify the
many faces of terrorism, as well as effective means to
prevent and fight its activities in and from our region.
As to the African continent, we believe measures
to combat terrorism should particularly address its
sources of financing, such as the illicit diamond, drug
and weapons traffic, and identify its networks in order
to prevent the free circulation of its members.
In partnership with some countries, Angola has
developed an international diamond certification
system that has prevented diamonds originating from
illegal traffic to reach international markets. Thus, we
have helped prevent the financing of terrorist groups
and their activities in many countries of our continent.
At this stage, the struggle against terrorism
requires that, beyond the measures encompassed by
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), special
attention be devoted to the completion of an
international convention against terrorism. This legal
instrument could eliminate some of the ambiguities
still surrounding the definition of this phenomenon.
23

My Government is firmly committed to peace in
Angola, the African continent and the world as a
whole. After a period of uncertainty, peace is slowly
becoming an irreversible reality in Angola. The regular
forces of UNITA’s militarist wing, which had launched
a large-scale military campaign to seize power, have
been completely neutralized. Counties under their
illegal control have been liberated and the Angolan
Government now controls the entire national territory.
Large numbers of rebel soldiers and officers
surrendering their weapons and being integrated into
Angolan society is now a daily event. Today UNITA’s
military wing has only small groups, inadequately
armed in the jungle or in remote areas of our large
territory. Although they can make isolated armed
attacks, they do not represent a threat anymore to
Angolan democratic institutions or to the safety of
most of our population.
My Government believes that the Lusaka
Protocol continues to be a valid formula for resolving
problems related to peace and national reconciliation in
Angola.
The climate of peace that is starting to prevail is
having favourable repercussions on the country’s
economy. Although considerable distortions and
weaknesses still exist, reform efforts under way can
help overcome serious social problems and enable
general elections to be held in the near future in a truly
democratic environment.
As a result of a long period of war, Angola still
needs the support of the international community in its
effort to alleviate the problems of poverty, displaced
persons and refugees, and to rebuild its infrastructure.
The environment of relative peace would not be
possible without the help of the international
community, which has made the distinction between
those who are committed to peace and democracy and
the proponents of war, and has imposed Security
Council sanctions against UNITA’s militarist wing led
by Jonas Savimbi. The most visible effect of these
sanctions has been their contribution to a significant
reduction of Savimbi’s capacity to wage war and, as a
result, to persuade a great number of UNITA members
to give up their weapons and join the peace effort.
That outcome clearly demonstrates the efficacy of
the sanctions as a means, and not as an end in
themselves. That is why my Government favours
keeping and tightening them until peace becomes
irreversible in Angola. Nevertheless, my Government
is still concerned with the findings of United Nations
reports, according to which not all countries have fully
adopted measures called for by the sanctions
resolutions.
The Security Council resolutions on sanctions
against UNITA were adopted in accordance with the
powers given to the Council by the United Nations
Charter. All nations are legally obligated to abide by
and implement those resolutions. The resulting
obligations on the Member States prevail over any
inconsistent obligation to which they might be subject
by virtue of any other treaty or international agreement
to which they are, or may become, party. That principle
should also be applied with regard to sanctions against
UNITA.
The Angolan Government considers inconsistent
the arguments put forward by certain Governments —
some of which have a privileged relationship with
Angola — of a supposed incompatibility between their
internal legislation and Security Council resolutions.
We appeal to those countries to reverse their position
and to take the measures required. This, we believe,
will contribute to the development of harmonious
bilateral relationships with Angola.
Angola is firmly committed to a search for peace
in the Great Lakes region, and particularly in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. We are pleased
with the positive results achieved lately by the peace
process. In general terms, the ceasefire has been
adhered to and foreign troops have been withdrawn.
Angola, for example, has withdrawn 75 per cent of its
troops. Namibia has completed its withdrawal, and
both Zimbabwe and Uganda have started to repatriate
their respective armies. Only Rwanda has not yet taken
any step to signal its willingness to withdraw its forces,
and therefore to fulfil its basic obligation as a signatory
to the Lusaka Agreement and the obligations of the
pertinent resolutions of the Security Council. We are
hopeful that proper preparation of the inter-Congolese
dialogue will lead to a substantive discussion of the
relevant questions regarding the political future of the
country.
As regards Burundi, Angola salutes the
establishment of a transitional Government, which is a
direct outcome of the Pretoria agreement, for which the
mediation efforts of former President Nelson Mandela
24

were so crucial. We hope this step will soon lead to
peace and stability in Burundi and good-neighbourly
relations with bordering countries.
With regard to Western Sahara, Angola thinks it
is necessary to find a solution acceptable to both
parties that makes it possible to overcome the barriers
to the implementation of a plan to resolve the conflict.
My Government encourages the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) to persist in their
efforts in that direction.
The international community should not forget
the problems of Somalia. The establishment of a
Transitional National Government is an important step
on the way to a peaceful resolution of the internal
conflict there. Both the United Nations and the OAU
should support that step in order that Somalia can
return to its rightful place in the community of nations.
Angola is also concerned with the deterioration of
the peace process in the Middle East, which has
resulted from the recent intensification of the violence.
We believe that a resolution of the conflict between
Israel and Palestine will require negotiations. We
therefore appeal to the parties to continue their
dialogue and to abide by the agreements they signed
and by the relevant resolutions of the Security Council.
Angola is pleased with the advances achieved by
the fraternal people of East Timor in their struggle for
the right to self-determination and independence. The
political, moral and diplomatic support that Angola and
other members of the international community have
been providing through the years in major international
forums was decisive in enabling the people of the
territory to reach a point where they can finally choose
their destiny in freedom. The Timorese are now
preparing to proclaim the birth of a new, independent,
sovereign and democratic nation, but they will continue
to need the support of the United Nations for the
consolidation of their institutions.
The international economic recession will have a
major impact on developing countries, and on Africa in
particular, which has already suffered the effects of
globalization. Of course, African countries cannot
avoid globalization. But to engage in cooperative and
collective activities, African nations must be based in
strong States, something that hardly exists in the
continent.
In the New Partnership for Africa’s Development
(NEPAD), the countries of the continent have found a
way to break away from stagnation and to promote
inter-African cooperation and achieve development.
Angola is engaged in the New Partnership. Economic
progress can be achieved in Africa through the
promotion of trade among its nations, the establishment
of healthy economic conditions and good governance,
fighting regional threats — including conflicts and
endemic diseases — and welcoming capital inflows.
We hope that NEPAD will become a force for political
stabilization and economic development in African
countries, particularly those affected by serious
divisions.
The International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held in Monterrey, Mexico, must
be an opportunity to mobilize resources for
development, particularly for the 49 least developed
countries, 34 of which are in Africa, and to alleviate
the extreme poverty under which more than 600
million people are now living.





"
56,2001,SUR,"﻿My delegation cannot
find the words to convey its sadness about the plane
crash that occurred in a residential area in New York
this morning. At moments like these, silence speaks for
itself. The Government and the people of Suriname
offer their heartfelt condolences to the families of all
the victims. We pray that our love and friendship may
bring comfort and peace to all who have been affected
by this tragedy and by the horrific attacks on 11
September.
During the United Nations Year of Dialogue
among Civilizations, the need for dialogue is proving
to be essential throughout world. In Suriname, we have
always tried to apply the concept of dialogue.
Suriname is a small country with a multi-ethnic
population. Our ancestors came to Suriname
generations ago from West Africa, China, India,
Indonesia, Europe and the Middle East. We have been
fortunate that, owing to mutual respect and
understanding, in Suriname these groups have lived
together and are living together peacefully. More than
ever, we realize that this harmony should be treasured
and nurtured, since we can no longer take peace and
harmony for granted.
Our Government plays a very important role in
this peaceful coexistence, because we have strongly
promoted and actively worked for mutual respect and
consensus. We believe that for people to be actively
involved in the development of the country, they must
be able to see themselves represented in national and
local government. We strongly promote such consensus
democracy in Suriname, for this power-sharing
arrangement has stimulated all ethnic groups to be
tolerant and respectful of each other's political
ideologies, cultures and religions. Our Government and
our people firmly uphold the principle of freedom of
religion, as well as of tolerance and respect for each
other's forms of cultural expression.
In the same vein, the indigenous people of
Suriname live in the interior with their own cultural
and religious beliefs. The needs and rights of
indigenous people are dealt with at the highest level in
our Government. Their views and concerns are shared
with the central Government through continuous
dialogue. My Government therefore looks forward to
the first conference of the Permanent Forum on
Indigenous Issues, scheduled to take place in May
2002.
We know, and have experience of the fact, that
people's primordial attachments become stronger at
times of need and despair. The grief of families from
the United States of America and other parts of the
world has been deeply felt, and all over the globe many
families and groups have turned to each other for
comfort. Our hearts go out to all of the victims of the
11 September attacks and their families.
We cannot yet assess all the social and economic
effects of those attacks. However, we have already seen
the devastating effects on the Caribbean in terms of
loss of income in, for example, tourism and trade.
Natural disasters have also affected our area, and my
delegation sympathizes with the people of the
Caribbean, especially those of Belize and Cuba, whose
countries were recently struck by hurricanes Iris and
Michelle.
As a member of the Caribbean Community, we
know that we have grave problems in the region.
Limited access to global markets because of stringent
trade rules and World Trade Organization (WTO)
regulations have resulted in increased poverty in our
region. Suriname pleads for an institutional
arrangement between the United Nations and the WTO
so as to allow developing countries easier access to that
body.
We have further expanded and deepened our
regional ties. In this respect, we would like to express
our gratitude to the countries of the western
hemisphere which have offered us assistance and
shown their support for including us in the various
integration movements.
We in the Caribbean enjoy a high level of
democracy and are guided by the rule of law. Our
Governments have been actively involved in creating
5

an environment to attract foreign investors and to
increase the production of goods and services. We still
need assistance. The promises made by the developed
countries in the Millennium Declaration of 2000 have
not yielded an increase in official development
assistance. We, the countries in development, need
equal opportunities.
If we, as the international community, agree that
human-centred development is at the top of our agenda,
we need to understand that we have to achieve it
together. If our goal is to eradicate abject poverty, we
must make an effort to achieve that goal. Cutting in
half by 2015 the number of people living on less than
$l a day is one of the main goals we want to achieve
for the benefit of the truly disadvantaged.
The International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held in March 2002 in Mexico,
will give both developed and developing countries an
opportunity to reach concrete agreements and make
arrangements for resources for development. If we do
not take the opportunity offered by that Conference to
work towards sustainable development for all people in
the world, we will miss a great chance to achieve a
more equitable distribution of global wealth.
If we do not take that opportunity, we will also
miss the chance to intensify our struggle to combat
deadly diseases such as HIV/AIDS and malaria, which
affect millions in the world. We in the Caribbean have
committed ourselves to continue the struggle against
HIV/AIDS in our region. We must not lose sight of the
fact that people are still dying every day of this
disease. It is up to us, the international community, to
find solutions and improve the lives of those billions of
people who are faced with global problems such as
extreme poverty, HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and
illiteracy, as well as problems resulting from the debt
burden, the refugee issue, environmental degradation
and the widening gap between rich and poor.
Suriname has made great efforts in gender
equality, and, with the assistance of the United Nations
Development Programme, we have begun training
programmes in gender sensitivity. We have women in
high-level positions, and it gives me great pleasure to
tell the Assembly that our current delegation consists
mainly of women. We are pleased with this
development in my country, but we still have a long
way to go.
Our commitment to the role of women has
prompted my country to work on a draft resolution in
the Third Committee of the General Assembly on
mainstreaming the situation of older women into
society, to ensure that that part of the population will
not be marginalized further in our societies.
Ageing has become a subject of increasing
concern to the international community, for it raises
significant social and cultural questions, as well as
questions of economic stability. My Government will
join the international community and the United
Nations to address and support the United Nations
initiative to achieve a society for all ages. We should
come up with appropriate strategies to collectively deal
with these issues during the Second World Assembly
on Ageing.
Human development constitutes one of the key
pillars of the development policy of my Government.
People, especially our children, are our country's
greatest treasure. This is why looking after their well-
being is placed high on our national agenda. Suriname
is looking forward to the Special Session on Children
that has been postponed to 2002.
Suriname hopes that the World Summit on
Sustainable Development of 2002, in Johannesburg,
and the assessment of the Earth Summit of June 1992,
will lead to recommendations and commitments for the
implementation of real sustainable human development
in a globally sustainable environment. Protecting the
environment is the responsibility of all countries.
Suriname took a first step in conserving biodiversity
for contemporary and future generations by
establishing the largest protected nature reserve in
South America three years ago. With this first step, we
hope to encourage other countries in the world to
protect the environment, and to work together on the
many emerging global environmental threats.
Suriname is extremely concerned about the trans-
shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea,
but we are pleased to see that so many countries have
ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
The ever-widening global digital divide that
prevents developing countries from benefiting fully
from the advancements in information technology is a
concern that we have discussed in various international
forums, but it still needs much more of our attention.
6

The effects of globalization have not been
favourable to most developing countries. However, we
have come to understand and experience that our world
is an interdependent one, and we cannot turn back this
clock. The attacks of the 11 September have shown us
how interdependent we are. The loss of lives was
directly felt in the United States and in more than 80
countries in the rest of the world. The economic effects
are also being felt in all parts of the world.
In conclusion, the Secretary-General and the
United Nations received the Nobel Peace Prize this
year at a time when the world was still trying to
comprehend the horrific attacks of 11 September on the
United States. Suriname hopes that this distinguished
award will encourage the United Nations to continue
its important work for human rights, peace, social
justice, human development, human-rights education
and economic prosperity for all the peoples of the
world. We congratulate the Secretary-General on this
prestigious award and his re-election. And we
congratulate Mr. Han on his election as President and
look forward to his guidance and leadership during the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
As members of the United Nations family, we are
called upon to practice tolerance and to live together in
peace with one another as good neighbours. Because of
the devastating consequences of 11 September, we
have the obligation to look closely at the root causes of
terrorism. The causes of terrorism have to be discussed
and dealt with to protect all our peoples and interests.
For the world is our home, and we are the people who
live in it.










"
56,2001,EGY,"﻿Allow me to read the statement that was to be delivered
by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Arab


Republic of Egypt, Mr. Ahmed Maher El Sayed, who,
unfortunately, was unable to come to New York to
participate in this important debate.
“It gives me pleasure to express through
you, Sir, to the friendly people of Korea, my most
sincere congratulations on the confidence
bestowed by the General Assembly upon
President Han Seung-soo in his election as
President of the current session. I would like to
assure him of our full cooperation in ensuring the
success of our work. With my personal
knowledge of his abilities, experience and skills, I
am fully confident that our efforts will be
crowned with success through the activation of
the Charter and the strengthening of its
contribution to the building of a better world.
“We gather here under extremely sensitive
circumstances born from injustice and violence.
We must face them resolutely and boldly so as
not to allow the forces of evil to overcome our
aspirations, which cause us to gather here every
year. Among the circumstances which I would
like to highlight here today is, first, the continued
denial of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian
people, including their right to the establishment
of their independent State on the territories
occupied since June 1967, including East
Jerusalem. The second circumstance I wish to
mention is the harrowing events that took place in
the United States as a result of criminal terrorist
acts that took a heavy toll in innocent lives.
Thirdly, peoples continue to suffer from violence,
poverty, underdevelopment and injustice. We are
duty-bound to stand united against these
phenomena, because the oppression of one people
is the oppression of all peoples, the killing of one
soul is the same as killing the entire world, a
child who goes to bed hungry spells hunger for
the whole world and the demolition of a single
home condemns the whole of humanity to sleep
in the wilderness, deprived of the shelter of
legitimacy and law.
“The events of 11 September in the United
States were not the beginning of terrorism. We
have been suffering from terrorism for many
years. We stood alone in combating it and
overcoming the obstacles placed by some,
deliberately or unwittingly, in the path of our
struggle, until it was vanquished. The tragic
events of 11 September have brought the whole
question into the sharp focus of international
concern. This fact was reflected in a resolute
international consensus to deal not only with the
manifestations of terrorism but also with its root
causes.
“There is a consensus to address terrorism
within the framework of international law, as
represented by this great Organization, through
the use of a whole range of actions. These include
legislation, laws, security measures and the
dissemination of enlightened thought. There must
also be a constant search for justice, truth and
development. For the battle against terrorism to
be successful, it must extend to all aspects of life,
including the political, economic, social, cultural
and security aspects.
“A search for the root causes is not a
justification, rather, a diagnosis. A disease cannot
be cured by dealing with the symptoms alone;
there must, rather, be a thorough analysis and a
thorough investigation of the germs that spew
venom in human hearts, souls and bodies.
Discovering the pathogen opens the path for
effective treatment.
“No germ is more lethal to the future of
humanity than that of poverty. We look forward
to the forthcoming United Nations International
Conference on Financing for Development to be
held in Mexico; we hope that it will result in a
new international consensus on an international
economic framework serving the interests of all
States, developed and developing alike. We also
hope that it will create a new spirit of
constructive partnership among all members of
the international community. This partnership
should seek to eliminate the imbalances of
globalization, to maximize the opportunity for all
to benefit from it and to achieve prosperity and
political and economic stability.
“In this context, I would like to highlight
the new initiative adopted by the African leaders
at their recent summit in Lusaka to combat
poverty and build a brighter future for the peoples
of the continent — namely, the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). This
initiative reflects a clear vision of the spirit of our
times and a recognition by the peoples of Africa
38

of the reality that they bear the primary
responsibility for determining their future and for
eliminating the political, social and economic
obstacles standing before them. We look forward
to the international community providing the
necessary backing and support for this
constructive collective action in order to ensure a
successful outcome to the efforts aimed at the
development, stability and prosperity in Africa.
“At the same time, it is important to prevent
the spread of another disease: the so-called clash
of civilizations and religions, which could
undermine all of the progress made by humanity
so far towards constructive interaction and
coexistence. Therefore, we call for the convening
of an international conference to lay the
foundation for cooperation among all States
against terrorism. The conference should define
the obligations of States, from which there can be
no deviation. It should chart the path towards the
complete elimination of this scourge. It is
anathema to the right of all peoples to live in an
atmosphere of security, equality and justice that
enables all to build the edifices of prosperity and
progress.
“We also call for a genuine dialogue among
civilizations that would turn diversity into a
constructive force for mutual enrichment and
deep enlightenment. Such dialogue should allow
us all to avoid surrendering to the forces of
barbarism, which wish to fabricate a clash or a
conflict where there is none. There is but one
single, unified march towards a better world.
Differences will not disappear in that better
world; what will disappear are the rejection,
humiliation and persecution of others on the
grounds of religion, race or gender.
“That is the true sense of globalization that
we must uphold. It must be an expression of
interdependence among the peoples and countries
of the world and of the exchange of human and
social experience and economic and technological
potential. Globalization means dealing with the
changing world in a spirit of understanding that
does not attempt to impose or control — a spirit
that does not claim absolute distinction or attempt
to impose hegemony under any pretext. With this
spirit, an all-encompassing democracy will
emerge in international life. All States, big and
small, will make their contribution to global
advancement through their implementation of the
principles adopted by the world after painful
experience of war and disasters.
“This leads me to address a worrisome
phenomenon that has grown stronger since the
tragic events of 11 September: the attempt to
associate the charges of terrorism and
backwardness with Islam and the resultant
persecution of Arabs and Muslims. This attempt
can spring only from ignorance and blind
prejudice. Islam is a religion based on truth,
justice and respect for human rights, particularly
the right to life and to be free from poverty,
ignorance and disease. In Islam, people have the
duty to interact with others through fair means,
understanding and mutual respect.
“I commend those Governments, including
the United States Government, that have taken
measures to put an end to such heinous practices,
which recall the dark ages. Nevertheless, we all
need to do much more to reveal the truth and to
dispel the darkness of ignorance and arrogance.
All must know that human progress and
knowledge are a river that has flowed ceaselessly
since the dawn of history. Every civilization has
been both a beneficiary and a tributary of the
achievements of other cultures. The Arab Islamic,
Christian and pharaonic civilizations have all
made contributions that remain with us to this
very day. Without those contributions, the world
would not have been able to reach its current
level of progress. Had it not been for those
contributions, the backward forces of darkness
would never have been reined in.
“I stand before this Assembly at the end of
the first year of the third millennium, fully 10
years after the Madrid Conference which
reaffirmed the basis for a settlement in the Middle
East, and yet the Arab-Israeli conflict and the
question of Palestine at its core still await a just
and comprehensive settlement. That is truly hard
to believe.
“It is most regrettable that the Syrian and
Palestinian territories occupied in 1967 and parts
of the territory of Lebanon continue to languish
under the heavy yoke of Israeli occupation. That
occupation continues to give rise to injustice,
39

destruction, frustration and anger. Israel continues
to refuse to comply with the terms of
international legitimacy. It continues to defy the
will of the world. This unjust situation takes us
directly back to the dark ages which the United
Nations was established to end, and creates
suffering and agony for a people whose only
crime is to demand their rights. It also creates an
unhealthy climate exploited by those who wish to
fish in troubled waters in order to propagate
darkness, misery, chaos and pain.
“The international and regional situations,
in addition to the humanitarian and legal
requirements and interests of all peoples, can no
longer tolerate the continued occupation,
usurpation and settlement by Israel of the
territories of others. They can no longer brook an
army of hateful occupation using the most
sophisticated and lethal weapons to brutalize
unarmed civilians, demolish their homes and
uproot their trees. All these actions are
undertaken under a false pretext that disguises the
fact that this army is only defending the
occupation of the land of another people — the
people of Palestine.
“Similarly, the international situation can no
longer bear the declaration by an occupying
Power that it will not return the land it has seized
and that, if it should return any, it will do so
under unfair conditions. Equally untenable is its
position that peace can only mean its hegemony
and control in one form or another. The
announcement by a Government of its official
decision to resort to a policy of targeted killings
is also unacceptable.
“Like all nations and peoples, Israel must
understand that the world has changed. It must
realize that it is in its own interest to comply with
the international will. The only guarantee for the
security of Israel and of the whole region is for
Israel to put an end to its occupation, policies and
practices and to coexist with the peoples of the
region on the basis of equality, understanding and
respect for international legality and the
resolutions of the United Nations. Security cannot
be achieved with continued occupation. Peace is
incompatible with the doctrines of hegemony and
superiority. Free cooperation alone can ensure
prosperity for all.
“Sometimes I feel that, while the Arabs
have accepted Israel’s existence among them,
Israel has not yet accepted the existence of a
Palestinian people in the land of their ancestors,
with the right to live in a sovereign, independent
State with Arab Jerusalem as its capital. No Arab,
Muslim or Christian can abandon their holy sites
in Jerusalem. Those sites are constantly
threatened by attempts to desecrate or destroy
them by Israeli extremists, with the support of
those ostensibly less extreme.
“A political settlement of the question of
Palestine, the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict,
requires the following.
“First, Israel must demonstrate its clear will
to abandon its continued occupation of Arab
lands as an alleged means to maintain its security.
Israel needs to understand that its position in the
Middle East will not improve in any real sense
until it evinces the resolve to return to the borders
of 4 June 1967.
“Secondly, Israel must realize that any
peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine
requires the return of East Jerusalem to
Palestinian sovereignty. Failure to understand this
fact will always be an obstacle to all peaceful
efforts to establish peace in the Middle East.
“Thirdly, any political or security
arrangements for the settlement of the Palestinian
question must lead to the establishment of a
viable Palestinian State exercising sovereignty
over its land, water and airspace. There must be a
just settlement, based on United Nations
resolutions and the norms of justice and
legitimacy, of the oldest refugee problem in
modern history, namely, that of Palestinian
refugees.
“Fourthly, Egypt does not accept a situation
in which Israel remains the sole nuclear Power in
the Middle East. The Middle East must be a zone
free from weapons of mass destruction. The
countries of the world, particularly the five
nuclear-weapon States, must shoulder their
responsibilities under international nuclear non-
proliferation instruments.
“When such conditions prevail and are
supported forcefully and decisively by the
40

world’s nations — including the friends of
Israel — because they are just and right, then the
painful chapters of this long-lasting conflict can
finally be closed. Only then will it be possible to
raise new generations living in peace and
tolerance instead of living in the frustration,
violence and hatred that are born of illegal, unjust
occupation.
“I cannot fail to refer to the central and
important role of the United States of America in
assisting the parties to reach a final and just
settlement. Egypt looks with satisfaction to the
resumption of the active role of the United States.
In this regard, Egypt also welcomes the role of
the European Union, the Russian Federation and
the indispensable role of the United Nations in
the establishment of a just, lasting and
comprehensive peace in our region. Egypt will
continue to play its role in support of the
brotherly Palestinian people and on the side of
justice, right and legitimacy.
“Our part of the world, located in the area
from West Asia to the southern shores of the
Mediterranean, requires peace in order to achieve
the objective of social, economic and political
development. To that end, a just settlement must
be achieved quickly. Undoubtedly, the whole
international community will support such a
settlement, which will also require the
presentation of a major and integrated economic
programme that would provide the economic
capabilities for unleashing the creative potential
of the region, opening the door to constructive
cooperation among all its peoples and nations,
and helping it to overcome the tragedies it has
lived through for more than a century.
“Perhaps time does not allow us to address
all the problems facing the world. Suffice it for
me to reaffirm that Egypt will always eagerly
continue its efforts to uphold the noble principles
that the Charter of this great Organization
enshrines in a manner that serves the purposes
and principles of all peoples. We assure the
Assembly that we will continue our effective
participation and enhance our active contribution
to any collective action that guarantees to the
United Nations the capacities and tools it needs to
enable it to undertake the great responsibilities
with which we the Member States have charged
it, as well as to confront the multiple challenges
imposed by the changing nature of our world.”"
56,2001,SLB,"﻿At the outset,
let me express my sincere felicitations and those of my
Government and the people of the Solomon Islands, on
your election, Sir, as President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. As you know, the
Republic of Korea and Solomon Islands enjoy very
warm and cordial relations. My delegation is therefore
delighted to see you presiding over this Assembly. Our
gratitude also goes to your predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri, for the efficient manner in which he conducted
the work of the previous session. I also congratulate the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his well-
deserved reappointment for another term in office, and
on the award, to him and to the United Nations, of the
2001 Nobel Peace Prize.
The horrendous terrorist attack on the United
States on 11 September was an attack against humanity.
What we witnessed on that day was unimaginable. It
brought pain and loss on an inconceivable scale; there
can be no justification for it. This morning I visited
ground zero to pay my respects to the thousands of
innocent people buried there and to reaffirm the
solidarity of Solomon Islands with the Government and
the people of the United States of America.
Terrorism is an evil phenomenon which must be
eradicated. Individuals and organizations perpetrating
such evil must be brought to justice. Similarly, States
that harbour or provide safe haven for terrorist
activities must play their full part in eradicating this
menace.
The war against international terrorism must aim
to have far-reaching solutions, rather than be merely
reactive. Effective international cooperation is critical
to the global implementation of anti-terrorism
measures, in order to deny terrorists any weak spots
that they could exploit to launch their criminal
operations. Solomon Islands is taking steps towards the
ratification of the various international conventions
against terrorism. Countries such as mine need
technical support in law enforcement, surveillance and
information-sharing so as to effectively implement
these instruments. In this regard, I welcome President
Bush’s offer to help countries that need assistance in
2

strengthening and implementing anti-terrorism
strategies.
While the war against terrorism is a matter of
urgency, the United Nations should not underestimate
the continuing need to address other global issues that
also threaten human security. Persistent poverty and
underdevelopment; environmental degradation; internal
conflict and war; the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, as well as of small arms and light
weapons; trade in illicit drugs; the deadly spread of
HIV/AIDS; and violations of human rights are all
complex global problems that continue to demand
concerted global responses.
With their limited resources and capacity, small
island developing States like Solomon Islands are
unable to cope with the magnitude of these problems.
Post-cold-war security now rightly embraces human,
environmental, economic and political dimensions.
The inter-ethnic crisis that the Solomon Islands
experienced between 1998 and 2000, and its
devastating impact on the country, is a sobering
reminder that peace and development are intrinsically
linked. One cannot be achieved if the other fails. In
most situations, including in our case, peace takes
precedence, as no rebuilding is possible without
security and stability. My Government has worked
resolutely to bring the warring factions to the table.
Our efforts culminated in the signing of the Townsville
Peace Agreement in October 2000 and of the Marau
Peace Agreement earlier this year.
The Townsville Agreement led to the cessation of
the conflict. However, progress in the implementation
of the Agreement’s disarmament provisions has been
slow. With a considerable number of high-powered
weapons still to be handed in, the peace process
remains fragile. A review of the Agreement was begun
recently, but it has been temporarily suspended. We are
confident that the review process will soon resume in
order to positively consolidate the ongoing peace
process.
At this juncture, I wish to acknowledge the
contributions of our development partners towards the
peace process, in particular the Governments of the
Republic of China on Taiwan, Australia, New Zealand
and the countries of the European Union. My
Government is also grateful to civil society institutions,
including the churches and non-governmental
organizations, for their efforts, especially at the height
of the crisis.
The challenge is far from over. With a shattered
economy and a delicate peace process, the task of
rebuilding the country and ensuring lasting peace is
formidable. It requires the patience, cooperation and
commitment of all Solomon Islanders. My Government
has adopted a National Peace Plan and Programme of
Action aimed at addressing the root causes of the
conflict through meaningful dialogue and discussion
and by encouraging a more participatory approach in
the country’s socio-economic and political
development. The recent ruling by our judiciary
affirming the constitutional legitimacy of my
Government has given us additional resolve to
implement this Plan and Programme of Action. In this
connection, the understanding and support of the
international community, in particular our development
partners, is important.
Development cooperation should strive to reduce
the vulnerability of societies to violent conflicts. Aid
should go beyond immediate humanitarian needs. It has
to be linked to peace-building initiatives in order to
make peace sustainable. Development assistance could,
therefore, be a means of conflict prevention and an
instrument for peace-building.
There is a clear imperative to address the poverty
and inequality that exist among our countries. But there
is also an irrefutable common interest for doing so, as
many of today’s problems — especially in the least
developed countries — are rooted in underdevelopment
and poverty. The timely implementation of the
outcomes of the Third United Nations Conference on
the Least Developed Countries is therefore imperative.
We are fully aware that primary responsibility to put in
place the necessary reforms for poverty reduction and
economic growth lies with the least developed
countries. Education, infrastructure development and
improving basic health services remain priority issues
for Solomon Islands.
Undoubtedly, investment of overseas
development assistance resources to support our efforts
can accelerate development. Donor countries and
agencies must be more inclined to ensure that they do
not give with one hand, only to take away with the
other. In a globalizing world, donor partners’ policies
3

in virtually every sector — including trade and
investment, financial systems and the environment —
must help promote development for the poorest. In the
absence of that, the goal of attaining sustainable
development and managing globalization in a way that
maximizes its benefits for all will be difficult to
realize.
In the same spirit, I call on the development
partners to consider more practical and realistic
measures to deal with the huge amount of debt burden
that poor countries continue to shoulder. Development
partners must continue to positively consider measures
such as writing off debts; for even the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries Debt Initiative and the Paris Club
initiatives to address the problems of highly indebted
and poor developing countries have been cumbersome
and slow.
The International Conference on Financing for
Development, which is to be held in Mexico next
March, offers a unique opportunity for achieving
consensus on how to mobilize new and additional
resources for development. Solomon Islands looks
forward to participating actively in the Conference.
Agenda 21 remains a valid blueprint for the
management of the Earth’s environment and the
sustainable development of its resources. The World
Summit on Sustainable Development, to be held in
Johannesburg next year, 10 years after Rio, should
reach consensus on ways and means to ensure wider
and effective implementation of Agenda 21 and
subsequent international programmes, including the
Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States.
The ocean and its bounty continue to be a
principal resource for Solomon Islands. Our priorities
concerning oceans include sustainable fisheries
management, habitat protection and avoidance of
marine pollution. For us, the success of national
development planning depends significantly on the
continued health of the marine environment.
The unique circumstances of small island
developing States must be fully understood by the
international community as we strive to address the
serious threats of natural disasters, climate change and
sea-level rise. The Kyoto Protocol remains a significant
first step on the path to ensuring effective global action
to combat climate change. The international
community must now build on the outcomes of the
seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the
Framework Convention and work further towards the
resolution of all outstanding negotiating issues.
We must recall the vision which the United
Nations was created to serve, i.e. that each and every
human being deserves to live in dignity, be well
nourished, be educated, have access to decent health
care and decent work, be respected and consulted, and
be able to develop their talents and creativity. Our
challenge is to strengthen the United Nations and other
international institutions to strive more effectively
towards that vision. Solomon Islands remains
committed to the reform initiatives of the Secretary-
General.
This session should also continue with efforts to
make the work of the General Assembly more efficient
and effective. Furthermore, discussions on the reform
of the Security Council have gone on for too long
without substantial progress. Greater flexibility is
required in order for this process to be completed. The
goal is to have a more democratic, transparent and
effective Security Council.
In what is surely one of the bitter ironies of our
times, free and democratic Taiwan, home to 23 million
people and a peace-loving country, has been excluded
not only from the United Nations and all its specialized
agencies but also from nearly every other
intergovernmental organization in the world. Although
the Republic of China on Taiwan willingly abides by
international norms, standards and obligations, it is not
able to enjoy the same normal standard privileges and
treatment accorded to others. This is simply unfair and
unjust. The time has come to reconsider the exclusion
of the Republic of China from the United Nations. The
Republic of China on Taiwan was a founding member
of the Organization. It is a model of economic success
and democratic politics. Taiwan has continued to share
its development experiences with the wider
international community when given the opportunity.
Its continuing assistance during humanitarian crises
also deserves full commendation.
Solomon Islands’ appeal for Taiwan’s
representation and participation in the United Nations
system is premised on the principles of justice, dignity
and the right of the people of Taiwan to be heard and
represented in the international arena and for them to
be able to enjoy the same benefits that the rest of us
enjoy. My Government firmly believes that Taiwan’s
4

membership in the United Nations will effectively
serve to facilitate peaceful dialogue between the two
Chinas and provide a solid basis for a lasting
reconciliation between them. Dialogue is the only
means to resolve differences, and parity and mutual
respect must be the foundation upon which both sides
can build trust and confidence. The United Nations is
the best forum to nurture that trust and confidence. The
issue of Taiwan’s membership is consistent with the
United Nations principle of universality. But, above all,
it must be acknowledged that the Republic of China on
Taiwan is fully committed to fulfilling the obligations
of the United Nations Charter.
Finally, next month my country is going to the
polls to elect a new parliament, and thereafter a new
Government will be formed. This election manifests
our continuing commitment to constitutional and
parliamentary democracy. It is a critical election, as it
will confer a new mandate for the next Government to
continue with the ever-important responsibilities of
ensuring the rule of law, rebuilding the economy and
further consolidating the current peace process.
Those are difficult tasks, but we are determined
to write a new page in our young history — a new page
that should provide for ethnic harmony and co-
existence, comprehensive and lasting peace, economic
prosperity, and, above all, engender and nurture a
better future and hope for our children and future
generations.


"
56,2001,BGR,"﻿A year after the unique Millennium Assembly,
we can say that the United Nations is playing an
enhanced, more important role as a collective tool for
meeting the challenges facing the world.
Bulgaria welcomes the re-election of Mr. Kofi
Annan as Secretary-General, and hails the award of the
Nobel Peace Prize to him and to the Organization.
International terrorism has become aggressive
and powerful, and threatens not only States but also the
freedom of the human spirit, as proved by the world
Organization’s committed and active stance vis-à-vis
recent terrorist acts, along with the unanimously
adopted Security Council resolutions condemning
them. Bulgaria unequivocally supported those
resolutions, in particular Security Council resolution
1373 (2001). The National Assembly and the
Government of Bulgaria have adopted similar
declarations on ensuring a common effort in the fight
against terrorism.
Let me recall that the fight will be incomplete
without moral — even spiritual — commitment. Let us
not forget that the mere pursuit of material well-being
is not a panacea; other values are needed to improve
the lives of peoples. In a “virtual society”, there is a
need for real values and for a framework acceptable to
both the poor and the rich.
I take this opportunity to convey the condolences
of the Bulgarian people to the citizens of the United
States of America with respect to the terrorist acts of
11 September. We all admire the steadfastness and
courage they have displayed in addressing this tragedy
and its aftermath.
2

I am particularly proud to observe that, at a time
when the role and the importance of the United Nations
are on the rise, the Republic of Bulgaria is about to
assume the responsibilities of a non-permanent member
of the Security Council. For the Bulgarian people and
its Government, our election to that important organ of
the world Organization constitutes recognition of the
international standing of Bulgaria and of its active,
balanced foreign policy. Our foreign policy
priorities — membership of the European Union and of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization — are sounder
than ever before. For natural cultural reasons, we are
committed to the concept of la francophonie, which
embodies not merely a language but a state of mind. I
thank all Member States that were good enough to
support us in the election.
Bulgaria will shoulder the full responsibility of
non-permanent membership of the Security Council.
We are ready to participate in dialogue on the full
range of items related to the maintenance of
international peace and security. My country is open to
dialogue with all States Members of the Organization and
to ideas and suggestions aimed at enhancing the role
and effectiveness of the United Nations.
I wish here to speak of the positive part the
Republic of Bulgaria plays as an important actor for
peace and security in South-Eastern Europe and for
stability in the settlement of crises in the Eastern
Balkans, an area that borders on Bulgaria. We favour
full implementation of Security Council resolution
1244 (1999), and we consider that the 17 November
elections in Kosovo will be decisive for the process of
stabilization and democratization there. Similarly,
Bulgaria attaches high importance to ensuring the
stability of the Republic of Macedonia through the
implementation of the 13 August 2001 Framework
Agreement and to guaranteeing its sovereignty and
territorial integrity. My country supports full
implementation of the Dayton Accords and the
consolidation of the united State of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. In our view, democratization in the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a positive element. A
long-term strategy must be crafted to effect the
restoration and economic development of South-
Eastern Europe to rebuild it in the wake of the various
crises it has experienced. Let me stress that these
questions should continue to be the focus of all our
efforts to find equitable solutions to conflicts.
I should like also to highlight Bulgaria’s support
for the lasting and peaceful settlement of other regional
conflicts that are as tragic as those in the Middle East,
in Africa and elsewhere, of which there is a long and
sad list. Our positions in respect to all of these conflicts
are in conformity with the Charter of the United
Nations and generally recognized principles of
international law.
Having myself been an exile for more than 50
years, I am very aware of the human tragedy of
refugees, whose number and suffering are continuing to
increase, as is the case now in Afghanistan.
We attach great importance to items on the
agenda of the United Nations such as the combat
against organized crime and corruption and against
illegal drug trafficking. That is why our Government is
making a particular effort to this end on our own
territory. Monitoring trade in weapons and in dual-use
goods and technologies is highly relevant, given the
linkage between this kind of trade and terrorism.
Let me add that Bulgaria is participating actively
in cooperation efforts in the economic and social field
and in the areas of human rights, the non-proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction, global disarmament
and the protection of the environment. These objectives
are consonant with those of the new Bulgarian
Government: to ensure that the social needs of
Bulgarian citizens are met, and to bring about durable
economic growth, despite the sometimes difficult
international economic situation.
The attitude of the Republic of Bulgaria vis-à-vis
its increased responsibilities within this world
Organization will be based on a clear, logical and
consistent foreign policy, with an emphasis on regional
security, development and broadening the circle of
friendly States, and on making a contribution to the
resolution of global problems through its active
participation in multilateral dialogue. Solutions to
conflicts must be found here, at the United Nations —
not on the battlefield.
In conclusion, we believe that this policy will
meet with the understanding and support of all of the
Members of the United Nations.





"
56,2001,GRD,"﻿At the outset, my
delegation extends profound sympathy to the families
of the victims who lost their lives on the flight to the
Dominican Republic.
The rescheduled general debate now convened,
well into the work of the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly, only serves to reconfirm our
awareness of Mr. Han’s great diplomatic and
communicative skills. For this, my delegation thanks
and congratulates him once again. Under his competent
leadership we hope this will be a fruitful and decisive
session of the Assembly.
This being my first opportunity, may I take the
stand, on behalf of the Government and people of
Grenada, to heartily congratulate the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, and the
United Nations on the designation as recipient of the
Nobel Peace Prize.
Just as the fifty-fifth session was the Millennium
Assembly of joy, hope and optimism, this fifty-sixth
session, by contrast, can be called the unpredictable
Assembly of challenge and adversity, from which the
international community can nevertheless derive
strength and unity in the pursuit of a common enemy
who will eventually be found and brought to justice.
The challenge and uncertainty have come about
because terrorism now threatens the entire civilized
world. The catastrophic and traumatic events of 11
September have changed not only the lives of
individuals, for whom we grieve so painfully, but it has
also changed the modus vivendi and the modus
operandi of our present-day civilization in many
respects. If this cloud of hatred and revenge is allowed
to prevail, history will long remember that evil
triumphed due to inaction.
Thus, the broad international coalition brought
together by the United States of America and supported
by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and
General Assembly resolution 56/1 stands as a bulwark
ready to break the immoral and physical backbone of
terrorism. Grenada fully supports and endorses
resolution 1373 (2001), which sets out important
measures that countries — large and small, rich and
poor — must all take together to prevent and combat
terrorists in our jurisdictions or wherever they may be
found.
The newly formed Security Council Counter-
Terrorism Committee, under the chairmanship of the
Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom, is a
welcome and laudable effort in the struggle that
deserves the backing and support of all Member States
morally, strategically and financially. In addition, it is
soliciting assistance from persons with particular skills
in the performance of special functions.
The Government of Grenada has already begun to
take steps within its jurisdiction to implement measures
within our capacity that prevent and suppress the
financing of terrorists acts. Our priority to prevent
those who finance, plan, facilitate or commit terrorist
acts from using Grenada for those purposes against
other States or their citizens, as well as to find ways to
intensify and accelerate the exchange and sharing of
information. Grenada is examining its administrative
and other processes with a view to improving
efficiency in this regard.
We are active in the global fight against
terrorism. Grenada is cooperating with the United
States authorities to ensure that there are no terrorist
funds in any of our offshore institutions. Further,
Grenada has thoroughly examined its economic
citizenship programme to ensure that no known
terrorists had inadvertently been granted citizenship.
We are now confident that no such person is an
16

economic citizen of Grenada. In light of the changed
global environment and our commitment to assist in the
fight against terrorism in any way we can, the
Government of Grenada has taken the decision to
suspend indefinitely the economic citizenship
programme.
Moreover, Grenada continues to intensify its
participation in regional and international cooperation
efforts as we seek to ensure that there are no gaps in
the global framework for the fight against this heinous
crime. Grenada will reinforce and extend its
international cooperation arrangements in the field of
justice, policing and law enforcement.
The Government of Grenada fully supports the
development of a comprehensive and effective legal
framework to combat terrorism. My country has begun
a review of international conventions already in place,
with a view to signing, ratifying and fully
implementing them. Those not yet in effect will be
implemented. Some of these conventions are within the
United Nations system, while others are of a regional
or hemispheric nature. Priority is being given to the
existing 12 United Nations international conventions
against terrorism — in particular, the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism.
It is necessary for the international community to
send a clear and unambiguous signal to terrorists that
their philosophy is fundamentally wrong and totally
unacceptable. We must stand united in our efforts to
combat and eliminate activities aimed at killing
innocent people and destroying communities. The
Government of Grenada joins the Caribbean
Community in pledging our full support of efforts to
confront terrorism and restore the rights and freedom
of people the world over. My delegation would like to
focus for a few moments on the impact that this
dastardly act has had nationally, regionally and
internationally.
In my country, as elsewhere in the Caribbean, the
effect of the global economic turbulence has hit the
tourism and aviation sectors hardest. Tourism, the hotel
industry and aviation play a synergistic role that is
crucial to the economies of most small States in terms
of foreign exchange and employment.
The subregion had already begun to feel the
effects of the international economic downturn, which
caused the deterioration of our fortunes. But it is clear
that since the terrorist attacks on the United States of
America, Grenada and the other members of the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) are
suffering from further reduction in economic activities.
We are now severely challenged.
We are experiencing shortfalls in revenue
collection. Our tourism sector is experiencing a drastic
reduction in visitor arrivals. Indeed, the International
Monetary Fund predicts that arrivals in the Caribbean
region could fall short by as much as 50 per cent. Our
air and marine transport are also experiencing severe
reductions. Regional air carriers have registered as
much as a 45 per cent fall in passenger load since 11
September.
The picture looks bleak, but we are determined
that our response must prevent the devastation
envisioned by the perpetrators of terror. Soon after 11
September, the Prime Minister of Grenada and
Chairman of the OECS, The Honourable Dr. Keith
Mitchell, convened a meeting of OECS to discuss the
impact on tourism and related activities — hotels,
banks, agriculture, manufacturing and transportation.
The subregional meeting of OECS took a number of
decisions that will respond to our economic challenges.
One such measure is the formation of the Grenada
National Economic Council. This will give effect to the
revival of sustainable tourism. It will address fiscal and
economic performance, and it will give impetus to
productivity. In addition, only recently in the Bahamas,
the Caribbean Community heads of Government met
and approved an $18 million joint public/private sector
emergency tourism promotion programme,
demonstrating self-help at its best in the region.
The events of 11 September, with the ensuing
economic and geopolitical instability, have propelled us
to reorder our priorities. We need to focus on restoring
confidence in international economic and multilateral
cooperation. As we all know, the member States of the
World Trade Organization do not participate on a level
playing field. The developing world is still struggling
to bridge the economic and social divide in our global
community. Some were not in favour of the second
round of negotiations. Yet some States were willing to
put their differences aside and endeavour to march
towards the next stage of economic and multilateral
cooperation. This is clearly what we aspire to in this
august body.
17

While concerns about terrorism have dominated
the general debate, and rightly so, mention must be
made of the unfinished agenda of the last decade of the
twentieth century with respect to social and economic
development, central to which is the human person.
The following United Nations summit-level
conferences, which have been held in the past 10 years,
have all stressed sustainable development and the
centrality of the human person in the process: the
United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992; the World
Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in 1993; the
International Conference on Population and
Development in Cairo in 1994; the World Summit for
Social Development in Copenhagen in 1995; the
Second United Nations Conference on Human
Settlements (Habitat II) in Istanbul in 1996; the World
Food Summit in Rome in 1996; the Millennium
Summit in 2000; and the special session of the General
Assembly on HIV/AIDS in 2001.
The question is: How much of the outcome of
these conferences has been implemented with respect
to poverty alleviation, the empowerment of women,
health, education, children and the elderly, trade
liberalization, economic cooperation, and the sharing
and transfer of technology? Could it be that these
conferences and special sessions promised more than
they could deliver? Promising too much is as bad as
doing too little.
The fight against poverty underpins all of those
things. To feed the hungry is both a divine and a social
imperative. Thus, the international community is
particularly concerned that the International
Conference on Financing for Development to be held
next year in Mexico and the World Summit for
Sustainable Development to be held in South Africa,
both so important for small States, should yield
positive results. The Barbados Programme of Action
for the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States is still a major and unfulfilled
component of the process of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, and it
should be high on the implementation agenda this time
around.
For more than 40 years an embargo has existed
against a small country in the Caribbean. What this has
done is to ostracize the Cuban people and cause them
undue hardship. What it has achieved is to make the
Cuban people more innovative. The old wounds have
healed, the pain has dulled and the cause has
diminished. I wish to register Grenada’s support for the
removal of the United States of America’s economic
embargo on Cuba. Members will recall that last year
167 Member States voted in favour of the removal of
that embargo. Only three voted against and four
abstained. That shows the overwhelming position of
the international community against those sanctions.
Trade, as we know, is important for the development of
any people, and with the embargo there is no freedom
of trade between Cuba and the United States.
In the wake of the devastation caused in Cuba by
hurricane Michelle, it is now critical that steps be taken
to remove the embargo and to give the Cuban people a
chance to recover from that unstoppable force of
nature. The easing of the economic embargo against
Cuba could assist in the overall development of that
country, a small nation seeking against all odds to
maintain a modern, dynamic society in the Caribbean
and in Latin America. The lifting of the embargo would
augur well for friendly cooperative relations among all
the countries of this hemisphere.
Now, I turn to the issue of the Republic of China
on Taiwan. Grenada believes that a country that
exhibits fortitude and that has moved its economy from
poor and underdeveloped to affluent and prosperous
deserves recognition. A country that consistently shows
international responsibility surely deserves to be
admitted to this community of nations. The time has
come to reconsider the exclusion of the Republic of
China on Taiwan from membership of the United
Nations. The Republic of China is home to 23 million
people. It is a free and democratic country, and a
peace-loving member of the international community.
In economic terms, the Republic of China on Taiwan is
the seventeenth largest economy in the world, the
eighth largest investor in and fourth largest exporter of
information technology products, and the third largest
holder of foreign reserves. It is preposterous to
continue to keep such a country outside the world
body.
The Government of Grenada appeals for that
wrong to be corrected. We are therefore requesting that
the United Nations recognize the natural right of the
people of Taiwan to become active participants in this
Organization. We believe that the Government and the
people of Taiwan are seeking to participate in the
United Nations and to contribute constructively to the
18

international community. Grenada urges that they be
given that opportunity and that right.
Grenada, however, notes with satisfaction the
admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan into the
World Trade Organisation. It is the hope of my
delegation that the past, present and future performance
of Taiwan as a major democratic and international
economic player, although Taiwan is not now a
member of the United Nations, will in the not-too-
distant future enable it to regain its rightful place in the
family of nations.
The United Nations membership must make
Article 3 of the Charter a major priority in the next few
years. Our founding fathers called for the Organization
“To achieve international cooperation in
solving international problems of an economic,
social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in
promoting and encouraging respect for human
rights and for fundamental freedoms for all
without distinction as to race, sex, language, or
religion.”
We must do all in our power to provide added
economic opportunities for the developing world. We
believe that trade is one avenue to achieve this. I
therefore call on the Economic and Social Council
actively to pursue undertakings that could create an
encouraging atmosphere in which Member States could
have the opportunity to raise the standard of living of
their peoples. In the current global environment, we
must be conscious that inclusion in the processes of the
global economy is vital.
Finally, I must recall Article 1 of the United
Nations Charter, which calls for the Organization
“To maintain international peace and
security, and to that end: to take effective
collective measures for the prevention and
removal of threats to the peace.”
We must be relentless in our pursuit of the
purposes of the Organization. Our challenge is to work
towards the elimination of terrorist activities. Our quest
must be for economic opportunities for all States. And
our goal should be the peaceful coexistence of all
peoples of the international community.




"
56,2001,NER,"﻿The
fact that we are meeting under the presidency of one of
the most eminent personalities of the Republic of
Korea bears eloquent testimony to the positive changes
in international relations and to the end of the
ideological bipolarization of the world.
I would like at the outset to convey the
condolences of the Republic of the Niger to the United
States of America and the Dominican Republic for the
tragedy that occurred this morning.
The Niger would like to warmly congratulate
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election as President of the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session, as well as
the other members of the Bureau. We are sure that he
will demonstrate the same dynamism, energy and
human qualities as his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri
of Finland, as he continues his outstanding work for the
benefit of humankind.
I would like to reaffirm the warm congratulations
of the Niger to our brother, Mr. Kofi Annan, the
Secretary-General, for his re-election to a post whose
visibility, prestige and effectiveness he has done so
much to enhance, as well as for the award of the 2001
Nobel Peace Prize, which is a testimony — if further
evidence were needed — to the global recognition of
the work that he has already accomplished in the
service of humanity.
This serves as an eloquent rebuttal to the
arguments of all those who claim to find, in the denial
of the fundamental principles of dialogue between
cultures and nations — principles enshrined in the
Charter — the high road to salvation. In this regard, the
Niger endorses the relevant General Assembly and
Security Council resolutions, and welcomes the
emergence of a general consensus on the need to wage
war against terrorism on a collective and global basis,
within the framework of the international legality
embodied by the United Nations.
If we are to succeed, the fight against terrorism
must be based on a programme of international
cooperation, including, in particular, substantial
financial and technical assistance to the most
disadvantaged States so as to enable them to make a
significant contribution to that process.
Still on the subject of peace and security, I would
like to point out that, within the realm of disarmament
and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, we are in
the final stages of the process of ratifying the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and of
signing a safeguards agreement with the International
Atomic Energy Agency.
With regard to conventional weapons, the
convening of the United Nations Conference on the
Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects fulfilled one of the commitments
undertaken by our heads of State or Government in the
historic Millennium Declaration. The Niger welcomes
the fact that the Conference was able to adopt, by
consensus, a Programme of Action to combat that
scourge, which is one of the most serious threats to
international peace and security. Furthermore, the
Niger welcomes the fact that that Programme of Action
took account of the principal concerns expressed by
African States in the Bamako Declaration, by
providing, in particular, financial and technical
assistance measures for the disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration of former combatants.
No part of the world has been spared the illicit
trafficking in and circulation of small arms. But the
developing countries, in particular those on the
continent of Africa, are paying the highest price for the
proliferation of small arms from the standpoint of their
security, stability and development.
That is why the Economic Community of West
African States moratorium on the manufacture, import
and export of small arms, adopted in Abuja in October
1998, which was extended for three years on 5 July, as
well as the Programme for Coordination and
Assistance for Security and Development, should
receive substantial financial support from the
international community.
36

In this context, the Niger reaffirms its support for
the proposal of the United Kingdom to create an
international fund, to be managed by the United
Nations Development Programme, for the collection of
small arms. If it is effective, that fund will help to
support regional and national projects for the collection
and destruction of small arms in exchange for
development projects. In this regard, I am pleased to
reaffirm to the Assembly the gratitude of the Niger to
the countries that participated in the work of the Group
of Interested States on Practical Disarmament
Measures.
Since the events of 11 September, the entire
world has been assessing the tragic consequences of
that Manichaean ideology. Terrorists are, without
doubt, a threat to international peace and security. It
has been claimed that those events were committed in
the name of Islam. But as everyone knows, Islam is the
religion of the golden mean, and condemns suicide and
murder. It advocates dialogue and persuasion and the
steadfast combating of any tendency towards individual
or collective nihilism. That is one of the reasons why
the Niger fully associates itself with the global
coalition against terrorism. That is also why, during the
recent discussions on measures to eliminate
international terrorism, the Niger reiterated its firm
condemnation of all forms of violence and its
determination to commit itself to all subregional and
international initiatives aimed at eradicating that
scourge.
In the Millennium Declaration, world leaders
undertook to enhance the effectiveness of the United
Nations in the maintenance of international peace and
security by providing it with the necessary tools and
resources to better prevent conflict, bring about the
peaceful settlement of disputes and consolidate peace
and post-conflict reconstruction. In order to be
effective, a preventive conflict-management strategy,
as set out in the report of the Secretary-General,
requires the international community, working together
with national and regional actors, to adopt a
comprehensive approach encompassing political,
diplomatic, humanitarian and institutional measures,
and to undertake actions aimed at economic
revitalization. As a follow-up to that report, last July in
Agadez my country, acting within the national dynamic
aimed at consolidating peace and with the support of
the United Nations, organized a forum on conflict
prevention — the first of its kind in Africa. That forum
recommended the elaboration of a national conflict-
prevention strategy, the implementation of which
would be coordinated by the National Commission for
Social Dialogue, which brings together representatives
of the State and civil society.
For too long, the international community’s
attention has been focused on the Middle East, where
repeated efforts to achieve a negotiated settlement of
the Israeli-Arab conflict have ended in deadlock. The
support of the G-8 for the idea of sending international
observers to Palestinian territory is an important step
forward; such action would guarantee the impartial
application of the recommendations of the Mitchell
report.
The Niger would like to reaffirm, here in the
Assembly, that a lasting settlement of the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict cannot be achieved without the
realization by the Palestinian people of their
inalienable right to an independent sovereign State.
The Niger wholeheartedly supports the position of the
United States of America in this regard.
With regard to the conflict in Western Sahara, the
Niger supports the efforts of the United Nations, in
particular those of the Secretary-General and his
Personal Envoy, to bring about a final settlement that is
acceptable to interested and concerned parties.
With regard to Asia, the summit meeting that
took place last July in India between the President of
Pakistan and the Prime Minister of India raised great
hopes for a political settlement of the conflict in
Kashmir. Such initiatives must be supported and
encouraged so as to allow for the self-determination of
the Kashmiri people as soon as possible in accordance
with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
By according highest priority to the specific
needs of Africa, the Millennium Summit recognized
the full magnitude of the serious problems that beset
our continent. Proof of this is that most African States
are included on the list of least advanced and poorest
countries and have been left behind by the
technological revolution. The ravages caused by armed
conflicts and the HIV/AIDS pandemic have affected
more than 26 million Africans and wiped out the hard-
won progress made over the past decade. At the same
time, the flow of official development assistance to
Africa has plummeted, while foreign direct investments
have continued to stagnate. Worse yet, between 1999
and 2000 those investments even fell from $10.5
37

billion to $9.1 billion, while during the same period
they rose in Asia and Central and Eastern Europe.
It is therefore urgent to increase the volume of
official development assistance, to expand debt-
cancellation initiatives, to improve the access of
African exports to international markets and to promote
investment. These measures must be accompanied by
appropriate support for the efforts of the United
Nations system because this Organization is the best
forum for promoting new partnerships for the benefit
of Africa.
In this respect, the Niger very much hopes that
Africa’s drive to reappropriate its own development
will be encouraged. That drive is marked by the
proliferation of national and regional initiatives, the
most recent manifestation of which was the adoption at
the Lusaka summit of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) of an African development plan, the
implementation of which the G-8 has decided to
support.
The forthcoming International Conference on
Financing for Development should prove to be a
decisive turning point in the establishment of a more
just and equitable world economic order. It should,
inter alia, lead to the adoption of a clear political
declaration defining strategic priorities, accompanied
by a precise timetable, with respect to the
strengthening of the capacities of the developing
countries, particularly the least developed among them,
and their integration into the world economy. The
Conference should be the point of departure of a broad
world partnership to channel all energies towards the
mobilization of resources for development and the
reform of international financial structures.
In this regard, the 10-year Brussels Programme of
Action for the Least Developed Countries has made it
possible to lay the foundations of an enhanced world
partnership to achieve the economic growth essential to
reducing poverty. Following the firm commitments
undertaken in Brussels, there are now grounds for hope
that, particularly with regard to trade, the current round
of World Trade Organization negotiations in Qatar will
take fully into account the interests of the least
developed countries, whose 630 million inhabitants
have a legitimate aspiration to benefit from the positive
effects of globalization.
In the absence of an appropriate response from
the affluent countries, the damage caused by the
HIV/AIDS epidemic may prove to be irreparable, given
that some specialists estimate that there will be 100
million dead from that disease by the year 2010 if
effective measures are not taken immediately to stem
the scourge.
Need we recall, moreover, that malaria claims as
many human victims in Africa as AIDS, particularly in
West Africa? It is comforting to note, however, that the
international community has finally become aware of
the signal danger posed by that disease. The Niger
welcomes the decision of the United Nations to
proclaim the period 2001-2010 the Decade to Roll
Back Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in
Africa. The United Nations is thus in step with the
various initiatives of the OAU in the struggle against
malaria, led by Yahya Jammeh of Gambia, Olusegun
Obasanjo of Nigeria and Mamadou Tandja of the Niger.
There can be no doubt that the struggle against
major diseases calls for substantial resources and a
strong capacity for coordinated action. The Niger
therefore welcomes the Secretary-General’s
establishment of the Global AIDS and Health Fund,
which should give a new dynamic to the struggle
against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, which together
claim 5 million dead throughout the world every year.
The announcement made at the G-8 summit in
Genoa that $1.8 billion will be devoted to launching
the Global Fund is an important step in the right
direction. In spite of everything, a great deal remains to
be done. According to United Nations estimates,
approximately $3 billion must be mobilized before
2001 for AIDS alone and contributions of $7 billion to
$10 billion will be necessary every year thereafter until
2005. Thus, today more than ever, the international
community must demonstrate active solidarity between
rich and poor and a sense of unshakeable collective
responsibility — in a word, unfailing political will —
if it wishes to translate into deeds the Declaration of
Commitment adopted at the special session on
HIV/AIDS.
The progress achieved in the Niger in its current
reform programme has allowed us to re-establish and
consolidate the country’s economic bases, to revive
fruitful relations with the international financial
institutions and thus to secure the Niger’s eligibility for
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative.
Furthermore, the Niger recently established a new
framework for the implementation of its own national
38

anti-poverty policy. A strategy for reducing poverty
defines the country’s priorities and measures and
actions to be undertaken in order to achieve the targets
set in various spheres, which will allow us to make
serious inroads into poverty by 2015.
This struggle against poverty in the Niger enjoys
the highest political involvement. A programme
initiated personally by the President of the Republic,
Mr. Mamadou Tandja, is designed to improve the living
standards of the people of our country. The first phase
of what is known as “The Programme of the President
of the Republic” has already led to the construction of
1,000 wells, 100 mini-dams, 100 schools and 100
health centres for rural communities. It is well known
that such communities in the Niger suffer intractable
illiteracy, a serious lack of infrastructure and cyclical
food shortages caused by irregular rainfall. The
Programme also stresses the link between poverty and
the environment. It is in that context that we plan to
plant 1 million trees throughout our national territory
by the end of this year.
The Government is thus perfectly in step with the
deep-rooted aspirations of the people of the Niger, who
recognize in its actions their ancestral lore of personal
and collective effort against adversity, and with its
bilateral and multilateral partners, whose ongoing
concern is the restoration of the environment. All the
institutions of the United Nations family and the
European Union — in particular France, Germany,
Italy and Great Britain — as well as Canada and Japan,
have contributed significantly to reviving the
ecological system and to combating desertification in
the Niger.
In the Niger, we are fully aware that this fight is
primary a national one. We wage it through
volunteerism, the roots of which are deeply entrenched
in our traditions and extend beyond our frontiers. I take
this opportunity to reiterate the profound gratitude of
the Niger to all the bodies of the United Nations
system, in particular the United Nations Development
Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the
United Nations Children’s Fund and our other
development partners, for their precious support for the
efforts of the Government to promote the well-being of
our people.
To conclude, I would say that the international
community needs a strong United Nations to achieve
the ambitious objectives set forth in the Charter and to
implement the Millennium Declaration. It is therefore
necessary to give unstinting support to the Secretary-
General in his efforts to reform the Organization,
strengthen its role and secure the resources that will
allow him to accomplish his task effectively. The
United Nations remains indeed the only institution
capable of bringing about the new world order to which
we all so deeply aspire.



"
56,2001,HTI,"﻿On behalf
of the President of the Republic of Haiti and of the
Haitian delegation, I should like at the outset to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. You may rest assured of the full support of the
Haitian delegation as you carry out your functions.
I should also like to pay tribute to your
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, on the efficacy and
talent he displayed in conducting the work of the
Millennium Assembly.
Allow me furthermore to offer my warmest
congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and
to the Organization on their receiving the Nobel Peace
Prize. Above and beyond any other consideration, this
reflects recognition of the efforts of the Secretary-
General and the Organization to promote peace and
development.
I also take this opportunity to convey, on behalf
of the people and Government of Haiti, our sincere
condolences to the bereaved families, and in particular
to the Government and brotherly people of the
Dominican Republic, following the tragic aeroplane
accident in Queens, New York, on 12 November.
2

The Government of the Republic of Haiti firmly
condemns the hateful acts carried out on 11 September
in Manhattan, New York, Washington, D.C., and
Pennsylvania, which claimed thousands of victims. On
this occasion, the Government offers its solidarity to
the American people and Government and its support
in the fight against terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations, wherever it may occur and whomever
its perpetrators, victims and promoters may be. These
inhuman and blind acts, while eliciting grief and
despair, attack the very underpinnings of the
democratic system and do violence to international
peace and security, freedom, human rights and the
search for well-being and prosperity.
The international community already has at its
disposal 10 conventions, complemented by two
protocols, addressing terrorism in its various
manifestations, not to mention two additional
initiatives under consideration on the issue. The
international legal instruments were recently
strengthened by Security Council resolution 1373
(2001), which provides the major guidelines for our
common struggle. We all stand to gain by adhering to
international legality. In that vein, the Haitian
Government, notwithstanding its meagre resources, is
committed to taking the measures necessary to ratify
and implement these relevant legal instruments.
These legal instruments are indispensable to our
common struggle against this scourge, to be sure, but it
is also of the utmost importance that we begin to
consider the social, economic, political and other
factors that might spawn terrorism. The international
community, under the auspices of the United Nations
and the banner of tolerance and solidarity, must build a
grand coalition against poverty, ignorance, want,
hunger, social exclusion and marginalization. That task
is more urgent now than ever.
It is time for the members of the international
community to reach a consensus on Security Council
reform. It is necessary to increase the number of the
Council’s permanent members on the basis of better
geographic distribution. We must undertake an in-depth
re-evaluation of the right of veto, the current form of
which is barely relevant to international relations and
the exigencies of the democratic imperative. We must
also institutionalize transparency in the Council’s
working methods and procedures. The achievement of
these goals will make the Organization more effective
and strengthen its legitimacy and authority.
The Republic of Haiti urges States and peoples in
conflict, especially in the Middle East, to embrace
dialogue in order to find lasting peace.
Today, in a world led by financial markets, trade
exchanges and investments of unprecedented scope, a
number of developing countries are being marginalized
from world economic developments. We must
refashion cooperation for development if we wish to
reverse their slide into marginalization and extreme
poverty. We must, in partnership with the international
community and all the actors concerned, revise our
strategies and propose a common approach that will
tackle the problem of inequality during the new
millennium.
Thus, we are afforded the opportunity to
implement all the commitments undertaken by our
heads of State and Government during the Millennium
Summit. More than 147 heads of State and Government
solemnly committed themselves to deliver humanity
from want, and to make the right to development a
reality for all. It is incumbent on us to translate these
commitments into concrete deeds.
The benefits of trade for development are
recognized, but it is perhaps still necessary to ask
ourselves if in the context of globalization the least
developed countries do not find themselves in a
dilemma. How can we seriously speak of free trade
with countries that, for the most part, have little to
trade. It is also necessary to increase their production
and export capacities.
It is essential that these countries have access to
markets where they can sell their products. There is the
“Everything but arms” initiative of the European
Commission, which we welcome, and we invite our
developing country partners to do the same.
The Haitian Government welcomes the holding of
the Conference on Financing for Development, which
will take place during the first quarter of 2002 in
Monterrey, Mexico. That Conference gives us the
opportunity to formulate recommendations on the
reorientation of cooperation for development, in
particular concrete measures in the area of debt
management, technological cooperation, trade,
investment and the international financial system. The
Haitian Government also welcomes the organizing of
the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which
will take place next September in Johannesburg, and
invites its partners to accept this concept of
3

partnership, in which the interlocutors hold dialogues
as equals in a framework of mutual respect.
My Government reaffirms its faith in a
democratic future for Haiti, and, out of conviction, will
do everything necessary to consolidate and strengthen
the rule of law. Democracy will thus remain one of the
pillars of the Haitian Government’s policies.
Haiti is now undergoing a crisis situation, which
is the result of an electoral controversy. In fact, after
the elections of 21 May 2000 for the reconstitution of
the Chamber of Deputies, more than two thirds of the
Senate and all of our local offices, the electoral
observer mission of the Organization of American
States (OAS), while acknowledging in a report that the
elections took place in an acceptable and credible way,
still uncovered certain irregularities in the way that the
absolute majority required for the election of the eight
candidates to the Senate had been calculated. What
followed was the suspension of international
assistance, the resumption of which is still conditional
on resolving the post-electoral crisis.
As soon as he was elected, and even before his
inauguration, Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
committed himself to the path of dialogue, convinced
that opposition is necessary for the proper functioning
of institutions. It was in this context that President
Aristide’s eight-point letter of December 2000 was sent
to the then President of the United States, Mr. William
Jefferson Clinton. In fact, in his search for a negotiated
solution, President Aristide encouraged initiatives on
the part of sectors of civil society.
In addition, during the participation of the Haitian
delegation at the Quebec Summit, where the member
States of the OAS took note of the efforts made by the
Government, our head of State reiterated once again his
determination to find a negotiated solution to the crisis
in Haiti.
Once again, in Costa Rica, during the twenty-first
session of the OAS General Assembly in June 2001,
President Aristide, in a letter to the President of the
Assembly made proposals that were incorporated into a
resolution adopted by the 34 members of the
organization as recommendations for crisis resolution.
Since then, the head of State and the Government of
Haiti have done everything possible to effectively
implement these recommendations.
The Haitian Government and the political
organization Fanmi Lavalas, with a mediation role
played the OAS general secretariat, have begun
negotiations with Democratic Convergence, a political
opposition group, with a view to reaching an agreement
in the framework of the commitments made in Costa
Rica.
During those negotiations, various proposals have
been put forward, particularly: the resignation of the
seven senators concerned in the OAS report; the
shortening by two years of the term of office of all
deputies; the shortening of the term of office of the
senators elected on 21 May 2000; the putting together
of a future provisional electoral council; the holding in
November 2002 of early elections for all of the
members of parliament involved in the points that I
have just mentioned; and the holding of elections
during the first quarter of 2003 for the local offices
whose terms will expire in November 2003.
President Aristide, the Government and the
Fanmi Lavalas party have demonstrated much
flexibility in the framework of negotiations.
Unfortunately, the Convergence remains intransigent
and challenges the wording of the two last points, on
the holding of elections. The Convergence is frozen in
its position, called “option zero”, which consists in
simply annulling the elections of 21 May 2000. Thus,
the impasse still exists; international assistance is still
suspended.
Meanwhile, poverty rages in Haiti. The AIDS
pandemic, having claimed 260,000 victims, means a
loss in terms of the life expectancy of our population,
which had been painstakingly increased. Maternal and
infant mortality is clearly progressing. The figure of
500 out of 100,000 dying in childbirth and the infant
mortality rate, which has risen to 61 out of every 1,000
births, remain very alarming. Given that children,
women and men — an entire population — are dying
for lack of means, of financial resources, would it be an
exaggeration to speak of another form of economic
terrorism that none dare reveal?
Can one justify the link between a contested
method of tallying votes and the freeze on financing
given to my country in the form of loans — loans on
which we continue, despite everything, to pay
interest — especially since we know that the legislative
and local elections of 21 May 2000 were held to fill
7,500 vacant posts, that 29,000 candidates took part in
4

these elections, and that voter participation of 60 per
cent was the highest since 1990?
The Republic of Haiti remains confident of its
destiny. It appeals to the international community so
that its members will understand that the survival of
the people cannot be tied only to political manoeuvres.
The Haitian Government is committed to a process of
strengthening institutions and remains open to dialogue
and all proposals that do not undermine the dignity of
the Haitian people. Against this background, we
welcome with satisfaction the letter of the Black
Caucus of the United States Congress, of 9 November
2001, addressed to the current President of the United
States, Mr. George W. Bush, which denounces the
inflexible policies vis-à-vis Haiti that make economic
cooperation dependent on unblocking the political
process.
The Government is ready to do everything in its
power to resolve the post-election crisis and put the
country back on the path of development, but this
cannot be done without the cooperation of the
international community. To this end, it invites this
community to join it in its daily struggle for survival,
reconciliation and peace.



"
56,2001,CRI,"﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate you,
Sir, on your well-deserved election to preside over the
work of this General Assembly. We are familiar with
your valuable personal qualities and appreciate the
leadership of your country, the Republic of Korea, in
the concert of nations. I would also like to express my
gratitude to the outgoing President, Mr. Harri Holkeri,
for his excellent work.
I should like to express the deepest condolences
of the people and Government of Costa Rica to the
Government of the Dominican Republic and to the
relatives and friends of the more than 200 Dominican
nationals who lost their lives in the tragic aeroplane
accident that occurred here yesterday.
This year, the General Assembly is meeting in
extraordinary circumstances. Only two moths ago, this
city fell victim to the most dreadful and despicable
terrorist attack in world history. Even today, just a few
kilometres from this Hall, we can contemplate,
bewildered, the column of smoke that marks the
remains of the twin towers. The rubble reminds us of
the destruction, pain and death caused by violence and
irrational hatred. Therefore, I cannot let pass this
opportunity without reiterating the deepest condolences
of the people and Government of Costa Rica to the
people and Government of the United States.
On 11 September, the terrorists targeted not only
New York, but the whole of humankind. Today, we all
are victims of terrorism. Costa Rica realizes that
terrorism is an extremely grave crime against humanity
that victimizes the innocent civil population and
endangers the international community as a whole. For
this reason, we condemn terrorism categorically in all
its forms and manifestations, wherever and by
whomever committed, while we proclaim that there is
no political, philosophical, racial, ethnic or religious
justification that legitimizes the commission of this
crime.
The recent terrorist attacks force us to rethink the
concept of international security and to renew our
commitment to mankind’s basic values. When faced
with cruel fear and hatred, we must raise the flag of
civilization, tolerance and brotherhood. In the face of
irrational violence, we must take up the arms of reason,
law and order. Against terrorism, we must resort to the
rule of law, justice and due process through
international cooperation in the judicial and law
enforcement fields.
Faced with new treats to international security,
the community of nations must create effective and
precise mechanisms to ensure peace and development
for all peoples. In this context, we welcome the
adoption of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). It
constitutes a firm, proportionate and necessary answer
to the despicable acts of 11 September.
Furthermore, we welcome the progress achieved
in the negotiation of a comprehensive convention to
proscribe and punish terrorism in all its forms. My
delegation has taken active part in the recent
negotiations to solve the outstanding issues, and we are
grateful to the Secretary-General for his personal
involvement in obtaining a consensus solution. We call
upon all delegations to be flexible and to agree to the
consensus formula proposed by the coordinator of the
contact group on this issue.
The struggle against terrorism must lead us to
build a true culture of peace and life. Right now, we
have the duty to plant the seeds of peace in order to
substitute the vices of destruction and conflict with the
30

virtues of fraternity, tolerance and cooperation among
all men and women.
Currently, thanks to scientific and technological
progress, we can defeat disease, poverty, famine, hatred
and war. We now posses the necessary economic,
technological and philosophical means to guarantee to
each and every person the highest standards of life and
the necessary conditions for their fullest physical,
intellectual and spiritual development.
In this context, the United Nations could and
should play a central role in building a future of peace
and freedom. This Organization must be a bastion
against war, hatred and poverty. This institution must
be a beacon that lights the way and points towards the
final goal.
To this end, the respect of human rights and
promotion of human dignity, in all spheres, must be the
crux of the activities of the United Nations. The
protection of human beings is the only justification for
peacekeeping activities. The promotion of human
dignity is the only legitimate reason for pursuing
sustainable development. The protection of human life
is the only justification for the protection of the
environment or search for economic development. The
philosophy of this Organization must therefore be
deeply humane.
The protection of human rights is the cornerstone
of Costa Rica’s foreign policy. Costa Ricans loathe
every violation of fundamental rights. We reject
intolerance, hatred, inequality and war. We condemn
extrajudicial executions, the death penalty, abortion,
forced displacement, torture, rape and hostage-taking.
We categorically condemn all restrictions on freedom
of speech and thought. The ethical values of the Costa
Rican identity make us proclaim a more just and
humane society and demand greater solidarity.
This Organization’s work in the area of human
rights is outstanding. The codification efforts and the
periodic conferences have provided the international
community with clear guidelines of conduct. Now, we
must concentrate our efforts in the implementation of
those norms at all levels of society, placing special
emphasis on the fulfilment of economic, social and
cultural rights.
In particular, it is necessary to rationalize and
coordinate the work of the monitoring organs,
including the Commission on Human Rights, in order
to make them more effective. Costa Rica considers it
necessary to review the national reports system in order
to make it more transparent and expeditious. We
believe that Member States must open their borders in
a candid and forthright manner to the human rights
rapporteurs that are appointed by the Commission. This
obligation flows directly from the commitments
undertaken under Articles 55 and 56 of the Charter.
Simultaneously, we must respond positively to the
request for additional resources made by the High
Commissioner for Human Rights. Moreover, the
United Nations must remain vigilant so as to deal with
the new challenges that threaten the enjoyment of
human rights.
We are concerned by the recent developments in
the area of cloning and biotechnology. For this reason,
we welcome the proposal by France and Germany to
negotiate an international agreement to prohibit the
reproductive cloning of human beings. We believe that
such an instrument should also forbid other forms of
experimentation in biotechnology that are contrary to
both human life and dignity.
We must strengthen the family as the basic
building block of society. The family is indispensable
for the formation of healthy, productive and
responsible citizens. We must also make additional
efforts to support parents in the education of their
children. In this regard, my country recently enacted a
special law on responsible parenthood that ensures,
through unprecedented and resolute judicial means,
that all biological fathers will be responsible for the
education and care of any offspring born out of
wedlock.
The efforts to maintain international peace and
security must also be seen from the point of view of
human rights. Armed conflicts produce continuous
humanitarian crises and atrocities. As long as war
exists, it will be impossible to ensure respect for the
basic human rights. In situations of armed conflict, all
necessary measures must be taken to protect the
security of innocent civilians. It is crucial to provide
them with immediate assistance, in order to prevent
greater loss of life and destruction. It is also necessary
to protect the human rights of refugees and displaced
persons. Furthermore, at the end of an armed conflict,
greater international cooperation is required to rebuild
the national economy and lost infrastructure and to
return life to normal.
31

For several years, my delegation has advocated
the strengthening of the Security Council. We have said
that it is the only mechanism that humanity has to
confront the threats that beset it. Costa Rica has
questioned the Council when it has ignored its duties
and has been reduced to irrelevance. We have criticized
it when it has confined itself to giving weak and
inadequate answers to the gravest political and
humanitarian emergencies. We have denounced it when
it has been unable to act because of an irresponsible
use of the veto or the defence of national interests of
certain of its members. Today, the adoption of
resolution 1373 (2001) gives us new hope. We are
confident that, in the future, the Security Council will
confront other emergency situations with the same
decisiveness, promptness and effectiveness.
Weapons are a catalyst for armed conflicts. Their
proliferation fans the flames of violence; exacerbates
fighting and hatred; aggravates crime and terrorism;
and fosters political and social instability. Military
arsenals prolong armed conflicts and impede peace
processes, while the armies consume insatiably the
meagre national resources. To attain peace, it is
necessary to forbid the transfer of arms to rebel,
extremist or terrorist groups. The transfer of weapons
to Governments that commit systematic human rights
violations, do not respect democratic principles or have
not ratified the main instruments of international
humanitarian law should also be forbidden. We believe
that it is essential to regulate the possession of light
weapons by civilians.
My country condemns the unilateral and
disproportionate use of force and countermeasures,
while it supports the mechanisms and principles
enshrined in international law. We must embrace
negotiation, dialogue, mediation and the judicial
resolution of disputes. For this reason, Costa Rica fully
endorses and has full confidence in the excellent work
of the International Court of Justice. We believe that
the voluntary acceptance of its obligatory jurisdiction,
through optional declarations, is clear proof of good
faith. However, we cannot fail to express our deep
concern about the existence and emergence of new
reservations on the voluntary acceptance of the Court’s
jurisdiction. Good faith in international relations
demands the withdrawal of those reservations.
True and sustainable peace can be achieved only
when decent living conditions are guaranteed to all
people; when there is a level of economic development
sufficiently advanced so that everyone can satisfy his
or her basic needs; when basic human rights are
respected; and when social and political differences are
resolved through democratic means, dialogue and
negotiation. Therefore, it is essential to invest
intensively and systematically in our human resources,
devoting all necessary resources to education and
health. Only an educated population can live in
freedom, only a healthy population can work for
development and only a cultured population can
integrate itself in the globalized contemporary world.
Similarly, it is necessary to ensure the sustainable
use and management of natural resources. Without a
healthy environment it is impossible to attain decent
living conditions, both for the present and for the
future. We cannot ignore the damage caused to future
generations by the destruction of thousands of square
kilometres of the earth’s forests.
Costa Rica has developed a national system of
payments for environmental services with a view to
alleviating the impact of greenhouse gases and
preserving our forests for mankind. My country has
devoted one quarter of its national territory to the
protection of its forests. The production of
environmental goods and the provision of
environmental services have become an engine of
national development. For these reasons, my country
will be honoured to be the host country of the first
ministerial meeting of the United Nations Forum on
Forests, which will be held in March 2002. We look
forward to the active and constructive participation of
all Member States in that meeting.
My delegation notes with concern the growing
inequality in the area of vulnerability. The States with
the most fragile economies and whose inhabitants have
fewer resources for prevention and reconstruction are
the ones that suffer most from the effects of natural
disasters. In our region, Central America, we have been
the victims of several disasters that, in the course of the
past decade, have caused very serious human and
material losses. The lack of financial resources imposes
a harsh limit on the poorest nations’ capacity to prevent
humanitarian emergencies. Therefore, we advocate an
increase in international cooperation with developing
nations to enable them to design and implement
programmes to reduce their vulnerability.
In this context, I would like to mention the
bilateral assistance that the Republic of China in
32

Taiwan has given our region to face these emergencies.
Costa Rica understands and supports the repeated
efforts of the Republic of China in Taiwan, with 23
million inhabitants and a firm process of democratic
development and strengthening, to obtain
representation within this Organization. That country
also constitutes one of the main industrial centres of
the Asian basin, with which most Member States have
strong commercial and technical exchange ties. We
hope that all differences will soon be put aside so that
it will be possible to achieve agreements and both
branches of the Chinese people will be able to
participate jointly in international forums.
Just a couple of months ago we witnessed the
bloody and abominable impact of international
terrorism. Those despicable acts shook the conscience
of humanity as a whole. In these circumstances, the
world awaits the guidance of the United Nations. Our
peoples demand the decisive and firm action of the
international community. Humanity as a whole calls on
us to fulfil the lofty goals that we undertook when we
established this Organization.


"
56,2001,MNG,"﻿At the outset, I wish
to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, upon his unanimous re-election. The Nobel
Peace Prize conferred upon the United Nations and its
Secretary-General testifies to the broad recognition of
the increasing role played by the world Organization in
promoting peace, security and development and vests
in it, at the same time, greater responsibility and trust
in meeting both the existing and evolving global
challenges.
This session of the General Assembly is taking
place at a time when the international community is
drawn together more closely in the face of the
unprecedented task of developing an effective response
to the challenge of terrorism. The people and
Government of Mongolia have resolutely condemned
the barbaric attacks of 11 September as a deliberate act
of terrorism against freedom and democracy — an
attack against all humanity and expressed its full
support for the collective efforts of the anti-terrorist
coalition. From this high rostrum, I wish to reaffirm
Mongolia’s strong commitment to our common
7

struggle against the scourge of terrorism. I wish, on
behalf of the Government of Mongolia, to reiterate our
profound sympathy to the people and Government of
the United States of America and to all the families that
have been affected by this tragic event. I also express
my condolences to New Yorkers and to the
Governments of the United States of America and the
Dominican Republic over the tragic accident that took
place yesterday here in New York.
The response of the international community to
the terrorist attacks has clearly demonstrated its firm
resolve to collectively fight this global scourge. In this
respect, Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) of 28
September is a timely measure, unprecedented both in
its scope and nature. It has laid the groundwork for
practical measures to be taken by all Member States in
the fight against terrorism and established an effective
mechanism to monitor its implementation. My
Government is taking every necessary measure to
implement the provisions of the resolution and the
relevant report to that effect was submitted to the
counter-terrorism Committee of the Security Council
on 10 November.
I wish also to inform the Assembly that Mongolia
signed yesterday the 1999 International Convention for
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. With its
ratification in the near future, Mongolia will be party to
all the United Nations anti-terrorism conventions
applicable to it. We also believe that, in light of recent
events, the existing international legal framework on
terrorism ought to be further strengthened through the
speedy conclusion of a comprehensive convention
against international terrorism and a convention against
nuclear terrorism, preferably at this session of the
General Assembly. In the same vein, the pace of setting
up the International Criminal Court must be
accelerated.
In order to put the anti-terrorist strategy in the
right perspective, it would seem important to us to see
the problem in a wider setting, that is, to address issues
that provide a fertile soil for terrorism, such as
transnational organized crime, illicit drugs, money
laundering, illegal arms trafficking and others. The
United Nations, in our view, is uniquely positioned to
meet such a challenge and to develop a comprehensive
strategy to uproot international terrorism through
global and concerted action.
The events of 11 September have drastically
changed the world as we see it. It has revealed the
heightened vulnerability of the human family. It has
also revealed, in no uncertain terms, the need for
change in our approach to the way we perceive our
own security. In this regard, the concept of human
security, which places the safety, security and well-
being of a human being at the heart of the matter,
deserves our utmost attention. We see the prime merit
of the human security concept to be that it addresses in
a comprehensive manner the three-tiered freedom
outlined in the Millennium Declaration: freedom from
want, freedom from fear and freedom to live in a
healthier and cleaner environment.
In the emerging era of globalization, it is
becoming increasingly evident that no country can
ensure its security on its own. This indivisibility of
global human security requires a genuine display of
solidarity and collective responsibility on the part of
every country of the international community so that it
can effectively address the formidable challenges at the
turn of the new millennium.
After several decades of development efforts, the
number of the world’s poor remains at an
embarrassingly high level. Exclusion, marginalization
and inequality among and within countries are being
further exacerbated by both existing and evolving
transboundary threats.
Looking back, one could describe the decade of
the 1990s as a decade of commitments for
development, with a series of international conferences
and summits resulting in important declarations and
plans of action. Yet today, the world finds itself in
many respects in no better shape. The legitimate
question arises: Why? Does the international
community, increasingly seen as a single human family
living in a shared global village, have the capacity to
redress this situation? Technically, the right answer
seems to be yes. There are resources — financial,
human and technological — to ensure a better life. On
the other hand, one has to admit also that the
underlying reasons could be manifold, as the changes
undergone and challenges faced by the world over the
last decade are indeed complex both in nature and in
scope.
Yet, we cannot but agree with the Secretary-
General that
8

“The widening gap between goals and
achievements implies that the international
community has failed to deliver on crucial
commitments it made during the 1990s”.
(A/56/326, para. 81)
The real, hard question is then: Do we have the
sufficient political will and sense of solidarity to forge
the genuine partnership needed to erase the staggering
discrepancy between commitments and action? In the
final analysis, the answer to this question has to be
affirmative and has to be supported by practical,
meaningful action. We cannot afford to fail to honour
for yet another decade our commitments if we are
serious about ensuring human security. We cannot
afford to fail to implement the far-reaching yet
achievable targets set by the Millennium Summit last
year. Our failure could be used as a justification for
deadly acts by those who pose a threat to humanity. Let
us therefore make the first decade of this new century
one of implementation and cooperation for a safer,
healthier and better world. Additional efforts are
urgently required, and affluent countries could exhibit
their solidarity and shared responsibility by further
opening their markets, providing broader and faster
debt relief and giving more and better-focused
development assistance and incentives for foreign
direct investment flows to their less fortunate partners.
We must mobilize the political will necessary to
make the upcoming conferences on financing for
development, sustainable development and food
security a success. The lead-up to these important
events and the conferences themselves are to take into
consideration the special needs of small, vulnerable
and structurally disadvantaged economies so as to
enable them to integrate into the multilateral trading
system and take advantage of the opportunities offered
by the advance of globalization. We also believe that
the international ministerial meeting on transit
transport cooperation, to be held in 2003, is of crucial
importance in enhancing international cooperation to
ease the inherent development handicaps of the
landlocked developing countries, as recognized in the
Millennium Declaration.
My delegation shares the view that a commitment
to human security demands enhanced international
cooperation in conflict prevention and strengthened
capacities to assist countries in restoring, building and
keeping the peace. In this respect, Mongolia fully
supports the Secretary-General in his efforts to move
the United Nations from a culture of reaction to a
culture of prevention. We believe that mutual
understanding and dialogue among different peoples
and civilizations are acutely needed to break the pattern
of mistrust, suspicion and recrimination that either lead
to a conflict or serve as a pretext for it. We know that
mutual understanding and dialogue are possible when
there is cooperation between nations.
This session of the General Assembly is of
special significance to my country and its people, as we
celebrate the fortieth anniversary of Mongolia’s
admission to the United Nations. On 27 October 1961
Mongolia became a full-fledged member of the world
Organization, an event of historic importance to my
people. Over the years our cooperation with the
organizations of the United Nations family has been
expanding both in scope and in substance. Today
Mongolia is party to some 140 international treaties
and conventions, and is a member of 33 inter-
governmental and 20 regional and other organizations.
The United Nations assistance and cooperation has
been instrumental in developing human resources,
capacity-building, education, health and information
technology, reducing poverty, protecting the
environment and developing an adequate response to
natural disasters.
Within the framework of the fortieth anniversary,
we have been undertaking a host of activities to take
stock of our past cooperation with the organizations of
the United Nations system and identify priority areas
for future cooperation. This culminated in the joint
conference organized by the Government of Mongolia
and the United Nations on 3 September, in Ulaanbaatar,
under the theme “Forty Years of Mongolia-United
Nations Cooperation: Implementation of the
Millennium Declaration”. The main thrust of the
discussions and conclusions of that conference has
been incorporated into the memorandum of the
Government of Mongolia on the implementation of the
Millennium Declaration, which has been circulated as
an official document of this session of the General
Assembly.
Over the last four decades of our cooperation,
Mongolia has been endeavouring to contribute, where
it could, to the common efforts of the international
community to promote peace, cooperation and
development. My delegation is proud to recall that on
the initiative of Mongolia the General Assembly
adopted the Declaration on the Right of Peoples to
9

Peace, the principles and guidelines for international
negotiations, resolutions to observe annually a
Disarmament Week and relevant resolutions on the
importance of human resources, cooperatives, rural
women and the special needs of the landlocked
developing countries. Furthermore, as a strong
advocate of nuclear-weapon-free zones in various parts
of the world, in 1992 Mongolia declared its own
territory a nuclear-weapon-free zone, and has been
working to further institutionalize this.
Recognizing the crucial role of education in
ensuring sustainable human development and human
security, my delegation is pleased to note that this
session of the General Assembly is about to proclaim,
on Mongolia’s initiative, the 10-year period beginning
1 January 2003 the United Nations decade for literacy.
Mongolia supports peacekeeping operations as
one of the important means of maintaining
international peace and security. Since the mid-1990s,
Mongolia has taken deliberate steps and made
measurable progress in developing its peacekeeping
capability. Showing its willingness to contribute to the
United Nations peacekeeping missions through direct
participation, in 1999 Mongolia signed a memorandum
of understanding with the United Nations on standby
arrangements regarding the provision of staff officers,
military observers and medical officers. Mongolia
stands ready to actively cooperate with the United
Nations and to make a practical contribution to its
peacekeeping operations.
As a member of the Conference on Disarmament,
Mongolia cannot but fully agree with the Secretary-
General, in paragraph 77 of his report on the work of
the Organization (A/56/1), that the “level of
international cooperation in disarmament remains
disappointingly low.” In order to bring the Conference
on Disarmament out of its ongoing stalemate it may
seem advisable to give political impetus to the
disarmament agenda by convening a Security Council
meeting at the highest level or holding one of the future
sessions of the Conference on Disarmament at the level
of Foreign Ministers.
In recent years Mongolia has been an active
participant in international activities aimed at
strengthening institutions and processes of democratic
governance, protecting human rights and promoting
democratic consolidation. The 1992 Constitution of
Mongolia guarantees the Mongolian people
fundamental freedoms and human rights. Mongolia is
party to all major international human rights
instruments. Earlier this year Mongolia set up an
independent National Human Rights Commission.
Yesterday Mongolia signed the two Optional Protocols
to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Willing
to share its fresh experience of peaceful and
simultaneous transition to democracy and a market-
oriented economy over the last decade and to learn
more from the valuable experiences of other countries,
Mongolia has offered to host the Fifth International
Conference of New or Restored Democracies in 2003
in Ulaanbaatar.
The task of ensuring human security and
promoting human-centred development is high on the
agenda of my Government, as envisaged in its
programme of action. Recognizing the importance of
the quality of governance in achieving development
goals, my Government approved a national programme
on good governance for human security to facilitate the
policy focus, coherence and sustainability of its
programme of action. Mongolia has thus become the
first country aspiring to ensure human security through
building good governance. As we move along this
trailblazing path, we are aware of the need for the
knowledge, expertise, experience and assistance of the
organizations of the United Nations system and our
fellow members of the international community.
The Government is resolved to ensure sustained
economic growth through reinvigorating and
encouraging the development of domestic industry,
rehabilitating the banking sector, upgrading the living
standards of the people, reducing poverty and
unemployment, and ensuring equitable social and
educational opportunities. We will intensify structural
reforms and encourage an export-oriented, private-
sector-led economy. Mining, processing of raw
materials of animal origin, tourism and other export-
oriented sectors are the top priority areas of
development. Privatization of State assets, including
the most valuable State enterprises, will continue. The
creation of a favourable environment for the attraction
of foreign investment is also a priority objective.
In its endeavours to carry out simultaneous
economic and political reforms Mongolia faces many
challenges. On behalf of the Government of Mongolia,
I wish to express our sincere gratitude and high
appreciation to our bilateral and multilateral partners
for their generous support and cooperation pledged at
10

the eighth meeting of the Mongolia Assistance Group,
held last May in Paris, demonstrating thus their support
of my Government’s policy and action.
Mongolia will continue its active participation in
multilateral processes and international organizations
such as the United Nations and will spare no effort to
ensure that the world Organization remains a focal
point for coordination of the effort of the community of
nations toward peace and development in the years to
come.



"
56,2001,GRC,"﻿Allow me to
congratulate the President, Mr. Han Seung-soo, on his
election and also to express my deep appreciation to
his predecessor, Mr. Holkeri, for his excellent work
during the past year.
The nations that constitute this Organization are
today attempting to draft a comprehensive convention
against terrorism, a difficult but absolutely necessary
task. We may not yet agree on how to define terrorism,
however the world, with a near unanimous voice,
condemned the 11 September events. The world
showed solidarity with the American people, the
United States Government, and President Bush. That
highlights a simple truth and a profound consensus, a
consensus that this was an act against humanity, a
consensus that this was a crime against the values we
hold dear as human beings and as societies, and a
consensus that justice must be done.
From the ruins of this tragedy there rises a
newborn moral strength, a clarion call to change this
world, a call to create a moral order, a world
community of values where a genuine sense of justice
can prevail. It is in our hands today — in fact it is our
responsibility to rise to this occasion, take a bold step
beyond our traditional rivalries and consolidate a new
spirit of cooperation. Let us make this a common fight
for humanity. To do so we need not abandon our
national interests. We do, however, need to place them
in a wider context, a world order based on common
practices, shared principles and global values. We must
go beyond rhetoric. That also means that our
responsibilities must reach beyond our borders.
Whether it be a child who is suffering from AIDS in
Africa, an Afghan refugee facing starvation, or a
human being discriminated against because of race, sex
or religion — these are today our shared
responsibilities. Whether it be our threatened
environment, the need for sustainable development, the
need for equal educational opportunities, access to the
Internet, or the inclusion of the poor in the fruits of
development — these are today our shared
responsibilities. Nuclear weapons proliferation,
weapons of mass destruction and the protection of
children in conflict situations — these also are today
our shared responsibilities. No events could have made
it clearer than did those we witnessed with horror on 11
September. We live in one world and no problem is
only our neighbour’s problem, it is also our problem.
That underlines the need for a universal response
to the challenges that the citizens of this global village
face. It underlines the need for standards concerning
principles and practices that guarantee justice — from
the Middle East to Cyprus, to Afghanistan and to
Kosovo. The need for these principles underlines the
pivotal role of the United Nations. I should like to
express our warm support, respect and gratitude for the
tireless efforts of Kofi Annan. Heartfelt congratulations
to him and to the Organization he represents, the
United Nations, on the award of this year’s Nobel
Peace Prize. It is a well-deserved accolade, an accolade
that carries with it a heightened sense of responsibility
to provide global governance in this globalized
world — a world of global problems and global
opportunities. Greece very much agrees with the words
of Louis Michel, speaking in his capacity as President
of the European Union, in support of the International
Criminal Court and the continued reform of the United
Nations.
Today in our search for justice on a global scale,
our challenge is to seek moral clarity. We must be able
to unite around what is right. The words “freedom”,
“democracy”, “human and minority rights”, “equality”,
“peaceful resolution of conflict”, “solidarity”,
“inclusion”, “open society”, “multiculturalism”,
“tolerance” and “biodiversity” must all become the
core of our common values. Yet there are different
interpretations and different practices in our world
concerning these concepts. In our search for a common
moral code we must not allow a clash of cultures. We
must seek a dialogue of cultures, and from this
dialogue of nations, cultures and religions, a common
moral code and order can and will emerge. The Charter
of the United Nations embodies these values. Our
5

challenge today is collectively to give practical
meaning to them. I should like to mention an important
step in recognizing and respecting the dignity and
diversity of our cultures in the world. Greece has tabled
a resolution on the return of cultural property.
Greece has always stood at a crossroads of
cultures. Our best moments have been when we used
that richness to learn. Today we are doing so again.
Greece is a member of the European Union and of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, yet its roots in the
East enrich us in equal measure. We are proud to be
European and Balkan and Mediterranean. We once
were a nation of emigrants and our diaspora has linked
us to all corners of the earth. Today we are a country
that welcomes immigrants. They make up more than 10
per cent of our population.
Ours is an open, multicultural society in the truest
sense of the word. We see and we understand the world
through many eyes. We understand that there are
different truths and different histories. Yet we approach
our traditions not as a wall that isolates us from each
other, but as depositories of knowledge and sources of
understanding and communication between cultures.
We believe that our histories cannot enslave us, they
must become our way of learning for the future.
This commitment to dialogue is also a
commitment to reach specific, practical results that will
enhance our region’s ability and the world
community’s capacity to establish well-respected
values and principles in dealing with world problems
such as terrorism. But in our fight against terrorism we
must uphold these principles, as they differentiate us
from those who use violence as their means. We must
also heed what the Secretary-General in his address
stressed. The problems we all shared prior to 11
September have not disappeared. However, I am
encouraged to report that we have made significant
strides in our own region of South-Eastern Europe. We
did so by committing ourselves to serve these values:
human and minority rights, democratic institutions,
good-neighbourly relations and the inviolability of
borders. We remain committed to the principle that
should differences and disagreements emerge, we will
seek to resolve them peacefully with respect to
international law. We have managed to establish the
framework of common values, one that will help us to
cooperate to solve our problems. Emerging from a state
of despair, the Balkans today represents a ray of hope
for all regions in conflict.
Of course there is much to do. Let me list the
priorities. We must turn provisional peace into
permanent peace. We can do so by resolving
outstanding bilateral issues. We must turn new-found
democracies into permanent and active democracies.
We can do so by building civic capacity and strong
transparent institutions that will guarantee the rule of
law. We must contain and eradicate organized crime, a
poison that runs through new-found democracies and is
often linked to terrorist networks. We must turn
opportunistic capital investment into entrepreneurial
initiatives and permanent business propositions that
provide youth with the prospect of a better and more
secure future. We must turn segregated communities
into multicultural societies, and we can do so by
investing in education. Greece has committed
resources, and of course its political will, to the above.
We cannot stop now. As a world community we must
continue and we must strengthen our investment in
people and in financial resources until our work is
complete.
Two years ago I stood before you here with my
Turkish colleague Ismail Cem, expressing the hope for
a new beginning in our relations, relations which
history seems to have frozen into constant rivalry and
conflict. Today I need not express only hope; I can
report that we have made significant progress. I have
just come from a meeting with my Turkish counterpart
where we signed a series of new agreements. Our
meetings have become frequent and regular. We work
together. We learn together. We help each other out in
times of difficulty and crisis. We have discovered the
importance of being good neighbours. We have started
to develop a common architecture of trust. The
products of our efforts are significant. We are
constantly adding confidence-building measures to
assure peace in the Aegean.
We have made a commitment to jointly become
parties to the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of
the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, and we
have taken steps to cooperate against natural disasters.
We are cooperating in the fight against crime, drug
trafficking, illegal migration and terrorism. We are
cooperating in tourism. Our trade has doubled. Energy
and agriculture have emerged as new fields of further
cooperation. Our two societies have taken the initiative
to commence and develop common economic, cultural,
educational and athletic activities.
6

These achievements stand as a reminder of the
response of our people after the earthquakes, when they
sent us a message saying:
“We have more in common than what separates
us; we are all equally vulnerable to pain and
suffering; equally capable of sympathy and
compassion; equally responsible for the life we
offer to the generations that are to follow.”
Again this year Greece and Turkey will jointly submit
a draft resolution on emergency disaster relief. Our
neighbour’s path towards the European Union, a path
we wholeheartedly support, has set a new framework
within which many of our remaining differences can be
resolved. Step by step we are building a solid
foundation.
Of course our work in the region is far from
complete. The architecture of trust we are building in
South-Eastern Europe is significantly hindered by the
situation in Cyprus, for the question of Cyprus remains
unresolved. The island remains divided in a shameful
condition. Cyprus is a tragic example of where our
shared sense of justice, our code of values, has gone
astray. Yet here is a new opportunity. Both the Greek
Cypriot and the Turkish Cypriot communities could
benefit from the island’s membership in the European
Union. It is a win-win situation. I sincerely believe that
every Greek aspires to a solution on Cyprus that will
satisfy both communities, a solution imposed by no one
party and accepted by all. I believe that that is what
every citizen in neighbouring Turkey aspires to as well.
Our constant reference to United Nations
resolutions that clearly call for the creation of a
bizonal, bicommunal federation cannot be interpreted
as a desire for outside imposition — both communities
have suffered terribly from outside intervention. On the
contrary, this call expresses our deep belief in justice
for Cyprus, a sense of justice for both communities.
That is what the United Nations framework can
guarantee.
I therefore appeal to the Turkish leadership to use
that framework for a just solution. Let us not expand
the wall that divides the two communities in Cyprus to
divide Turkey from Europe. Let us instead break down
this last Berlin Wall in Europe and help to create a
common future for the citizens of a free Cyprus. To all
of us in the region, a region seeking to eliminate
division, the prospect of the island’s entrance into the
united European family should be a source of euphoria,
not fear.
If we do share a common moral order, a common
understanding of what is right and wrong, then the
Middle East peace process had come close to
articulating the principles we share. For the good of the
people in the region and its stability, that process must
continue until a Palestinian State lives peacefully next
to a secure Israel. That peace process must begin anew,
without preconditions, based on secure initial steps
through the implementation of the Mitchell report
recommendations. Greece, as both a member of the
European Union and a neighbour to the Middle East,
will commit its efforts in this crucial situation towards
the support of peace, rapprochement and reconciliation.
We also hope that the hardships of the people of
Iraq will cease and that the country will be fully
integrated into the world community under a leadership
that cooperates with the international community and
complies with United Nations resolutions. That is also
our stand with regard to Afghanistan. We look forward
to the day that its Government represents its people and
leads them closer to the world community. Here,
Greece has already committed substantial resources
towards alleviating the humanitarian problem of the
Afghanis.
At times when it is easy to succumb to fear we
must have the strength to build confidence within and
among our societies. We must be able to celebrate
humanity in this global village, to go beyond our
differences and conflicts. One such occasion is the
Olympic Games. They are an ancient tradition that
grew out of the need for peace in the ancient world of
Hellenism. Today the five rings of the Olympic Games,
which represent five continents, are the most
recognized symbol on this planet, surpassing any
commercial logo. Let us use this global celebration to
further strengthen our community of common values.
Let us again pledge our commitment to the Olympic
Truce which the Secretary-General has so strongly
supported and the Millennium Summit has called for.
Ismail Cem and I have only recently signed a
declaration to this effect. Many ministers of the
Balkans, Europe and the Mediterranean have followed.
I invite all to become co-signatories.
We see that Truce as a moment in time powerful
enough to change the world. During the ceasefire in
Bosnia the Olympic Truce helped the Red Cross to
7

vaccinate hundreds of children. The two Koreas
parading under the same flag at the Sydney Games was
a powerful moment, witnessed by millions around the
world. We see truce as a time to reflect. We see truce as
a moment of silence. We see truce as a time to
question, to examine what we believe. We see truce as
a time to heal our wounds. We can use this pause from
violence to celebrate and to rejoice, and we can use it
to mourn and to remember. In Salt Lake City we can
use it to honour all those unjustly lost. If our global
quest for peace is a journey of 1,000 miles, then truce
is but the small first step. But imagine how glorious the
rest of our journey can be if we celebrate humanity, if
we give peace a chance and commit ourselves to that
first step.


"
56,2001,ISR,"﻿First of all, I would really like
to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President
of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I
know that you bring with you a wealth of experience, a
breadth of understanding and hope for many people. I
would also like to express my highest regard for
9

Secretary-General Kofi Annan on his well-deserved
recognition as Nobel Prize Laureate for his fresh ideas
and great vision on how to meet a new world with an
open mind, a sense of unity and hope.
There is hidden light and needed hope in this
gathering to overturn the darkness that has descended
upon us. There is enough strength and resolve in the
midst of civilized nations to deflect evil.
Humanity woke up happy to welcome the twenty-
first century. We turned around and looked, and there
was brightness and freshness in the air. We had
departed from a traditional history that was written
with red ink — wars, skirmishes, conflicts and
murders — many of which arose because human
existence was dependent upon land and natural
resources. We have had to protect our own lands.
Modern science emerged to supersede land,
opening new horizons of limitless opportunities.
Science rendered borders marginal, and old prejudices
and distances began to dissipate from our minds.
Technology created a new interdependence. No longer
were our connections dependent upon land or sea —
upon distance. Air became the new means of
communication for nations, peoples, businesses and
development. High technology introduced new
promises and recalled the importance of old values.
The perception was that every person,
irrespective of location, race, religion or sex, could
reach new heights. And then we learned that high
technology is not just a technical matter. We cannot
separate technology from values; it is impossible.
For example, you cannot combine lies and
science. You cannot lie scientifically. To have a
science-based economy, you have to pursue peace
uncompromisingly and openness uninterruptedly.
Science requires an open society; it demands constant
dialogue. You cannot have new innovations without
unrestricted research. You cannot have unrestricted
research without being a free society. You cannot
develop a scientific economy without making
education a top priority, available and accessible to all
people. You cannot attract investment unless you have
transparency.
In a competitive world, to keep young scientists
your land and water should be free from pollution, your
financial system free from corruption, your government
without arbitrariness. Truth, freedom and openness
became conditions for science and high technology
and, consequently, for the advancement of any society.
It is true that the world is still divided between
the haves and the have nots. But for the have nots, a
new option is that of becoming connected to the new
age and the more developed aspects of our times.
There had been a new beginning, but like many
beginnings, one mixed with shadows and revolt. The
shadows were not yet heavy; at the beginning they
looked pale and distant. So we felt like one promised
world, like one assembly. The economy was no longer
national; it became global — open to every nation. And
since we could not form a global government, the
national Governments agreed that the global economy
would be managed by private enterprises — hence,
privatization. Globalization decreased the importance
of traditional States and increased the importance of
non-governmental organizations and worldwide
connections. It looked as if borderless progress was
evolving. And then ambushing clouds, global in nature,
moved in as a new horror.
The horrific events of 11 September — the
savage attack on innocent American people —
signalled a new warning to world history. On 11
September, we learned that the very same technology I
mentioned earlier — openness and a frontier-less,
connected world — could also spread viciousness. This
attack was brutal, because it was directed at everything
we stand for, against everything for which nations, and
the United Nations, have toiled.
The emerging terror, like the emerging economy,
is no longer national or delineated by boundaries.
Rather, it is borderless, and it contains unlimited,
awesome potential. It can begin with knives, and it may
wind up with germs. Terror does not have a visible
address, a merciful lord in heaven, a court or an elected
government. Nor does it need the approval of the many.
It is built on the fanaticism of a small group of
murderers, lacking the checks and balances of an
accountable society. It may arrive unexpectedly,
uninvited, spreading fear in every corner of the globe,
paralysing us at work and home, grounding flights,
impeding movement, disrupting commerce and
production. Eventually, it can endanger the freshness of
air, the purity of water.
Global economy arrived as an historic surprise;
global terrorism also arrived without prior warning.
But, whereas a solution was found to regulate the
10

global economy, through privatization, there is no
private answer to meet global terrorism. Many nations
have armies, without necessarily having enemies. Yet,
for the time being, global dangers remain without
global answers or global armies.
The United States played the pivotal role in
introducing the new economy. Now again, it falls upon
the United States, as the first target of global terrorism,
to offer a strategy, to take the lead and to bring back
the promise of freedom and security to many of us.
We pay tribute to the United States, a nation that
had the capacity to welcome new modes of creativity,
planning, production and innovation at home and
abroad. And while becoming mighty, it did not stop
caring for the rest of the world. The United States has
helped nations in Europe and Asia and elsewhere
regain freedom and security in times of danger.
American boys fought, and many of them lost
their lives, in European and Asian wars. They won
wars and gained land, but they did not keep those
assets for themselves. They returned to Japan an
improved Japan. They returned to Germany an
improved Germany. The Marshall Plan helped to
rebuild Europe. Needy countries were offered food and
assistance, industries were restored, economies were
rehabilitated. There was generosity in their victory.
Indeed, America has emerged as the “indispensable
nation”.
Now America has become a target for reasons
which are not necessarily its own. Terrorism was
directed at America to frustrate its democracy, weaken
its respect for human rights, reduce its enterprise and
threaten its individualism so that it would not be able
to help others. This was an assault on the very
existence of humanity.
The bin Laden group are afraid of progress. They
are proponents of backwardness. They want us to
return to living in caves. They represent the darkest
ages in the annals of human history. They are self-
appointed killers of any persons who think differently
from them. They are not just evil — they are an agency
of death.
America is not just a new world or continent — it
is a great constitution, a shining city on the hill of
freedom. It is not just a concrete structure — it is a
solid idea. You can attack America, hurt it, but
America cannot be destroyed.
America’s war on terrorism is the war of all of us.
By “us”, I mean every country in this Assembly and
every human being on this planet. Bin Laden claims
that he fights crusaders, who no longer exist. Bin
Laden claims that he wants to help the Palestinians, but
in the eyes of the Palestinians, he is an obstacle, not an
aid.
Israel made peace with Egypt and returned all the
land and water without bin Ladens, without terror. We
did likewise with the Jordanians — not because of
terror, but because terror came to an end. At Camp
David in July 2000, we offered the Palestinians
practically all the land without bin Ladens, without
terror. And if there remained a difference of 1 or 2 per
cent, that does not justify the killing of thousands of
men and women in America. Political differences do
not justify murdering even a single child, no matter of
which nation.
Bin Laden and his abhorrent ideas can never
contribute to peace. They offer no solution and no hope
to any nation, religion or person. They spread hatred,
disseminate fear and plant mines. They are a
catastrophe at large.
The new world economy enabled two of the most
populous countries — China and India — to move
forward and offer new life and opportunity to hundreds
of millions of people. It has changed the face of
Europe. It has reversed the fortunes of Latin America.
It has extended an open invitation to every country to
acquire computers, widen education, open its gates and
join a new age without giving up its old values and
traditions. The new world economy called for an
assembly of responsible nations to build a dam against
terror, knowing perfectly well that the fight against
terror cannot be postponed, cannot be forgiven, cannot
be compromised. It is a matter of life and death for
humanity in the new chapter of our existence.
All of us, nations and individuals, will either
contribute to safety and freedom or become targets of
death and backwardness. Every country must choose its
place in the new world, either in the realm of science
and technology or in the wastebasket of the old land
economy, dependent on the whims of nature,
condemned to the poverty of hopelessness. It is the
responsibility of affluent nations to share the wealth of
knowledge so that others can join them. Rich countries
should become a locomotive for the deprived, not a
luxury liner for the privileged.
11

We pray wholeheartedly from the great and united
city of Jerusalem, as we did in the early days of our
existence, that we shall know again how to distinguish
between good and evil, between tohu va’vo-hu —
chaos — and a new tomorrow. Our region gave birth to
the greatest prophets, their moral dictums setting the
moral fabric of our society. They have guided us to
trust and follow reason and realism. But we were
forced to follow funerals more than reason. This has
exacted a heavy price from Jews, Muslims, Christians,
Druze. It is time that we rediscovered the Ten
Commandments, holy to all of us.
Right now it looks as if we are again sinking into
the past. The emotional conflict is greater than the
territorial gap. It is more difficult to muster the strength
and summon the spirit than to divide the land. In spite
of these difficulties, I daresay there is a hidden
opportunity in the vast divide. I feel strongly that while
we cannot recover lost time, we can introduce a new
vista in the Middle East.
Until now, the world related to the Middle East.
Now the Middle East has to relate to the new world.
Our neighbours — Palestinians and Arabs — know that
Israel is committed to contribute whatever it can to
renew a real peace process — not by force, not by
imposition, not by unilateral action, but through a
negotiated agreement, an agreed peace. There is no
peace but an agreed peace. Just as one cannot applaud
with one hand, there cannot be a one-handed peace.
Problems, naturally, have a date of birth.
Solutions must reach their maturity. It may not happen
at once, but it will happen. Yesterday, you would
hardly find, for example, support for a Palestinian State
and, although this is not yet a formal policy of the
Government of Israel, there is now support for
Palestinian independence and for a Palestinian State.
We do not want to dominate the Palestinians; we want
them to breathe freedom, to create a new economy, to
maintain their traditions, to enjoy the highest level of
education and to provide real security to all parties.
As far as Israel is concerned, we are convinced
that good neighbours are better than good guns. In
modern times, you cannot have real security dependent
only on fences, walls, fortifications or trenches; not
even on tanks and guns and missiles. All these
measures have already become anti-measures, making
them incomplete and temporary. The only strategy that
cannot be ignored is neighbourly relations, such as the
common market in Europe, the Rio Group in Latin
America, the North American Free Trade Agreement in
North America, the Association of South-East Asian
Nations in Asia and the New Partnership for African
Development in Africa. All these frameworks have
shown that answers to old historical, military and
political conflicts may reside in the economic domain.
What endangers the new solution is terror. Terror
is again endangering the world. The division is no
longer between East and West, North and South, but
between the union to stop terror and those who refuse
to recognize its menace. The assembly against terror
comprises most of humanity: the United States,
Europe, China, Russia, India, South America, many
countries in Africa and many countries in the Muslim
world.
Democracies must have a non-democratic
institution to defend themselves. Armies are non-
democratic, but without them democracy would not
prevail. You may have many views in a democratic
society, but only one authority that controls the military
and its arms. Armies must be subordinate to the elected
political body, but if you have one political authority
and several armed groups, you can have neither
democracy nor security.
The Palestinian Authority, which is a State in
being, must establish one authority over all arms, all
armies and all use of arms, not for the sake of Israel,
but for the sake of peace and for the sake of its own
destiny, so that bullets will not negate ballots.
As long as terror persists, Israel has no choice but
to defend its people. The word “terror” does not
describe an abstract dilemma for us. It refers to a
reality of between 30 to 40 violent incidents every
day — shootings, bombings, ambushes and killings. It
is perpetrated by suicide bombers who have no respect
for life, either their own or that of others. The only
place they can be intercepted is at the point from which
they depart.
Israel is, by definition, an experienced member of
the anti-terror camp. We know that terror can never win
if people protect and preserve their fundamental
security. Terror is strong as long as anti-terror is weak
and terror is frightening as long as people are afraid of
it. Terror basically represents cowardliness and does
not serve any real purpose. Terror neither follows
justice nor serves goals. It is not a remedy; it is a
malady.
12

We are at a juncture. The world is pursuing new
opportunities and frontiers. No longer will it be a world
divided between developed and underdeveloped
nations, black and white or men and women. It will
become a world where every person will have access to
knowledge and opportunity to participate in the new
genesis. States have become weaker economically and
strategically because economy and strategy have
themselves become global. Yet we do not have
organized world institutions to secure the globe and
distribute wealth more justly.
Two courses are open to every State: either to
join the new economy or to submit to old terror; the
creation of wealth or the threat of death. Each must
make its own choice between the promise of economy
or protest by terror. The Global Compact initiated by
the Secretary-General offers us a road map to the
former. It defines the functions and contributions of the
United Nations and imposes responsibilities on all of
us — nation States, the private sector and civil society.
It provides us with hope that, even as crises exist,
obscuring the opportunities just visible from the corner
of our eyes, the path to progress is clear to all with the
courage to embrace it.
We woke up to the twenty-first century with such
optimism. We must overcome the dangers so that our
children will again be raised in a world of almost
limitless opportunities. It can be done. We have learned
in Jerusalem that we can make a promised land into a
land of promise for all of us.






"
56,2001,QAT,"﻿It is my pleasure to address the
General Assembly today in my capacity as the Emir of
the State of Qatar and as Chairman of the Ninth
Summit of the Organization of the Islamic Conference.
It is our duty to make this important session of
the General Assembly a session for rebuilding
confidence and realizing the aspirations and
expectations of our peoples for a world where peace
and prosperity prevail.
I take this opportunity to extend to you, Sir, my
congratulations on your election to the presidency of
this session, and would like to extend my thanks to
your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri. I must also
congratulate Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election as
United Nations Secretary-General and on receiving the
Nobel Peace Prize along with the United Nations.
We are all aware of the critical and extraordinary
circumstances in which this session is being held and
of the political situation prevailing in the world in the
wake of the events of 11 September. An analysis of
these terrible events, which we condemn, prompts us to
say that humanity has actually reached a tremendous
turning point.
Personally, I believe that the way to offer the
greatest peace and serenity to the souls of the victims
of that criminal act, the sincerest consolation to their
families and the most effective support to the friendly
United States of America, where these events took
place, is for the international community as a whole not
only to confront what happened but also to act
decisively to avoid the repetition of such acts.
What happened in New York and Washington is
unprecedented and almost beyond our imagination.
There may be some strategic planners who see the
events as confirming their predictions, but for the rest
of us they would have seemed like fiction only a short
time ago. Sadly, the events were all too real, and we
watched with amazement, horror and sympathy as we
realized their full import for the future of humanity.
Dealing with the repercussions of these events
should not be a matter of merely punishing those
whose guilt in masterminding and carrying out these
criminal acts is proved. Inflicting punishment, though
imperative, will not, in my opinion, prevent the
14

repetition of similar or even more terrible acts in the
future.
We face an extremely serious situation. We are
seeing what could be described as a globalization of
terrorism through the evil utilization of the revolution
of technology and communications. Thus, we are all
involved in an unconventional war for which we are
not yet prepared.
As we know, terrorism is neither a temporary
phenomenon nor confined to a certain continent, creed,
culture or race; it is everywhere, concealed like time
bombs in our midst.
We should therefore ask ourselves, what have we
done as an international community about this
situation? Have we actually faced up to it? What have
we done to rebuild confidence among people? What
have we done to contain the fear that is demoralizing
our citizens? What are we going to do now to stop the
economic recession and social anxiety that threaten us
all? Furthermore, is this the world we promised at the
Millennium Summit a year ago — a world that would
be ruled by amity, peace and cooperation?
If anything, we have moved away from these
ideals. We now live in a world where liberties are
increasingly restricted, where democracy is in retreat
and where caution and isolation are replacing freedom
and openness.
The State of Qatar, along with all other Islamic
countries, has condemned the terrorist acts that took
place on 11 September. This stand was explicitly
expressed at the emergency meeting of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference Ministers for
Foreign Affairs held in Doha last month. Our
unanimous agreement condemning what happened
emanated from the values of our true Islamic religion
and its sublime sharia, which is based on tolerance,
justice, equality and cooperation among people and
forbids the unjust taking of human life. It urges us to
rebuild and to propagate peace and tranquillity.
In this connection, I would like to stress that what
deepens our conviction and strengthens our stance
towards these eternal cultural values is our realization
and understanding of the geopolitical importance of the
Muslim nation, with its diverse peoples, which makes
it a strategic partner in the process of building balanced
international relations.
In fact, this is what makes Muslims deplore those
who deliberately and desperately try to link Islam with
terrorism. Our peoples condemn and reject terrorism as
well as all attempts to distort the image of Islam, which
is the last of divine faiths, and those who abuse and
terrorize its adherents and jeopardize their lives,
dignity and interests.
Therefore, it is now necessary to stand resolutely
against all forms of harassment against Arab and
Muslim communities in any country that take place
under the pretext of combating terrorism and the
pursuit of terrorists.
We need to have a clear definition of terrorism
and distinguish between this phenomenon, which is
based on criminal practices and attacks against
innocent civilians, and legitimate struggles to throw off
the yoke of colonialism and subjugation.
Terrorism has taken root not only because of our
inability to tackle the sources of tension in the world’s
hot spots, but also because we have tolerated for too
long those who pursue policies of repression and deny
their citizens fundamental liberties and basic human
rights. The seeds of terrorism lie in places where
pluralism is rejected, corruption is allowed to spread,
authority is exploited and political opponents are
hounded in the guise of protecting the security of
homelands and people. It is neither just nor logical for
anyone to claim to improve internal conditions by
resorting to oppressive practices or to suspending
democracy.
In this context, we feel it is high time to put an
urgent end to the tragedy of the Palestinian people at
the hands of the Israeli occupation forces. We call on
the international community to shoulder its
responsibilities in providing the necessary international
protection for these people against the unjustified and
unacceptable daily aggression to which they are
exposed.
That is indispensable if we want to avert an
imminent human catastrophe, which would lead only to
a further cycle of violence, terrorism and destruction in
our region. We urge everyone to support their political
leaders when they call for restraint so as to avoid the
loss of innocent civilian life and so that the right
climate can be created for a just peace to prevail in that
troubled region.
15

In this context, we should like to put on record
our support for the positive stance of the President of
the United States, George W. Bush, and his
Administration, with regard to the establishment of a
Palestinian State. We would also like to pay tribute in
this respect to friendly European countries and other
international bodies concerned with the settlement of
the crisis. The ultimate test will be whether they
implement measures reflecting the positions that they
have taken and move from making statements to taking
action.
We must emphasize the need to address the
human tragedy of the people of Afghanistan. We
believe that it is our duty to provide all possible
assistance to those people, most of whom are living
under extremely difficult conditions — conditions that
further exacerbate their suffering, which was already
acute years before the crisis brought about by the
events of 11 September.
We therefore appeal to the international
community to provide assistance and aid to save the
lives of millions of Afghans who are facing a bleak
future. There is an urgent and immediate need for relief
as the Afghan winter approaches. We urge the Taliban
authorities to cooperate fully with relief organizations
to ensure that essential food and medicines can reach
all of their people. We urge the international
community to designate a safe corridor for such
supplies before winter sets in.
In addressing these urgent humanitarian concerns,
we believe that it is essential to seek a long-term
solution of the Afghan problem, as proposed by the
Organization of the Islamic Conference. Such a
solution would be based simply on maintaining the
territorial integrity and Islamic identity of Afghanistan,
and forming a government representing all factions of
Afghan society, excluding none.
It is the responsibility of the international
community to elaborate comprehensive programmes
and plans to confront all forms of global challenges. In
this respect, we are convinced of the necessity of
reforming the United Nations so as to step up the
effectiveness of its organs and agencies and to promote
its efficiency. Equally, as States Members of the
Organization, we are required to shoulder our political
responsibilities and honour our financial and moral
obligations towards the Organization. In this context,
we support the idea of expanding the membership of
the Security Council to make it more democratic and
more representative of the international community in
our contemporary world. We also support the idea of
expanding the permanent membership of the Council in
order to secure wider international representation. We
also support restrictions on the use of the veto on the
part of permanent members, regulating the ability to
exercise that right within limits established by specific
conditions and provisions to be agreed upon by the
international Organization.
From this rostrum, I would like to say that the
time has come for us to take steps immediately to
activate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In
implementing it, international organizations should not
confine their role to merely recording the violations of
its principles. They should move towards a
comprehensive, democratic dialogue that consolidates
its provisions guaranteeing people’s right to participate
in governance, expands its scope and makes it more
responsive, not just for today’s requirements, but also
for those of the future.
The State of Qatar is convinced of the importance
of — indeed, the necessity for — such a dialogue. As
we would be one of those to benefit from the outcome
of such a dialogue, we are willing to contribute in
many different ways in order to make this a year for
democratic dialogue that would truly reflect the
principles of the United Nations Charter at the
beginning of this millennium.
If approached with conviction and resolve, this
endeavour will lead to the interaction of different
views, and could help to unify our efforts against
current threats and future challenges and dangers. In
this way, our cultural distinctions could be turned into
a source of strength and wealth, our social disparities
could become an element of diversity and contribution,
and our political and geographical borders could
become points of cooperation, convergence and
communication among our peoples and nations. That
would provide an opportunity for all of us to live in a
world whose inhabitants take pride in their humanity
and look forward to a future of prosperity and well-
being for their children and grandchildren without any
discrimination or distinction.
May the peace and blessings of God be upon the
Assembly.


"
56,2001,COD,"﻿Allow
me, at the outset, to add my voice to those of the
distinguished speakers before me, to offer you, Sir, on
behalf of the people of the Congo and myself, our
warmest congratulations on your election as President
of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. The
Republic of Korea, your country, maintains excellent
relations with mine.
May I also use this opportunity to offer our most
heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan, a
distinguished son of Africa, on his re-election to the
post of Secretary-General and on the Nobel Prize,
which has been awarded to him in recognition of his
commitment to the cause of promoting peace in the
world.
The people of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, its Government and I condemn unreservedly
the blind acts of terrorism that plunged the United
States and all of humanity into grief on 11 September
2001. These were acts of gratuitous violence, which
deserve only the contempt of the whole international
community and of all nations that hold peace and
justice dear.
By applying and implementing Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001), my Government is committed
to fully cooperate in advancing all initiatives aimed at
eliminating terrorism in all its forms.
The Congolese people, which is itself the
innocent victim of a war of aggression by Rwanda,
Uganda and Burundi — another kind of terrorism
characterized by acts of barbarism that directly or
indirectly brought about the death of millions of
Congolese — had no trouble grasping the heinous
nature the sad events that took place in the United
States of America on 11 September 2001.
It would be tiresome to go back over the origin
and consequences of the war of aggression that started
on 2 August 1998, in flagrant violation of the Charters
of the United Nations and the Organization of African
Unity (OAU). Thus, following the logic of peace and
well aware that only non-violent settlements bring
lasting peace, I can but welcome the many peace
12

initiatives that have sought to bring about negotiated
solutions to the conflicts.
I have particularly in mind President Chiluba of
Zambia, the appointed mediator of the Lusaka peace
process for the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
I would also like to mention the Southern Africa
Development Community (SADC), and in particular
Angola, Namibia and Zimbabwe, which, in accordance
with the SADC charter, rallied around my country
when it was attacked.
I would also like to address my thanks and
gratitude to the United Nations and the United Nations
Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo (MONUC), whose arduous work on the
ground has been very praiseworthy, and to the OAU,
the European Union and certain other traditional
partners of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The situation on the ground has improved in spite
of the bad faith displayed by some of the parties to the
Lusaka Agreement. The disengagement of forces is in
its final stages, and the effective end to hostilities
which it has brought has been observed to the
satisfaction of all. However, the return of armed
tension has been seen in the eastern part of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, in the part of the
country that is occupied by Rwanda. These hostilities
have been wrongly described as fighting that has
moved to the rear of the Rwandan forces. In fact, what
we see is the logical consequence of the failure of a
new plan by the Rwandan aggressors, who hoped to
sweep away all Congolese resistance, the better to
occupy the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of
the Congo in order to be able to continue to pillage our
wealth unchallenged.
As far as the disarmament of the armed groups is
concerned, we should note that a disarmament,
demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and
reintegration (DDRRR) programme, drafted by
MONUC and the Joint Military Commission (JMC),
was adopted by the Political Committee set up under
the Lusaka Agreement. It provides, first of all, for the
voluntary disarmament of all the armed groups in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. In this respect, the
Congolese Government, reaffirming its good faith and
its commitment to this plan, has regrouped and
confined 3,000 Rwandan combatants in Kamina in
Katanga province, and a MONUC mission has been
there for several days now in order to identify these
particular individuals.
As far as the withdrawal of foreign forces is
concerned, the definitive and total departure of all
Namibian forces has been noted. This movement of
foreign forces back to their countries is continuing;
now the Zimbabwean, Angolan and Ugandan military
are beginning their withdrawal. Paradoxically,
however, and despite the continuing demands by the
international community through all of the relevant
Security Council resolutions, Rwanda is actually
reinforcing its military presence in the Congo.
The process of reconciliation, so long awaited
through national dialogue, made significant advances
during the preparatory meetings from 20-24 August
2001 in Gaborone, thanks to the Republican pact
initiated by the Government of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. I would like to take this
opportunity to reiterate solemnly from this rostrum the
full commitment of my Government to participate fully
in the sessions on this dialogue to be held in the
Republic of South Africa. I invite the facilitator to do
everything possible to deal with pending issues in order
to make sure that the forum regains its inclusive
character, as provided for by the Lusaka Agreement
and the relevant Security Council resolutions.
For the Government of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, it is important that representatives of all
sectors of our population should be able to participate
in this dialogue so as to lay the foundations of a
democratic State. I would invite the international
community, at the appropriate time, to assist my
country in organizing free, democratic and transparent
elections, which would allow the Congolese people to
choose their own leaders, leaders who will have the
legitimacy that a popular election provides and which,
in turn, guarantees political stability.
I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to
invite the United Nations to institute exemplary
sanctions against all those States, their accessories and
accomplices that are pillaging the wealth of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
I could not conclude my statement without
thanking the Security Council members for having
unanimously adopted resolution 1376 (2001) on 9
November, which condemns the establishment of a
joint force set up by the Congolese rebels, instigated by
Rwanda in violation of the Lusaka Agreement, in
13

violation of the DDRRR plan and of all relevant
Security Council resolutions. This resolution is
particularly welcome for its providing for the
deployment of MONUC’s phase III. It also provides for
the demilitarization of the city of Kisangani, the
neutrality of Kindu and the reconstruction of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
In my statement, I have condemned the infamous
acts perpetrated against the people of the United States
and of the world as a whole. I have also spoken of the
catastrophic situation in my country, which has been
victim of a war of aggression for the past three years. I
have also noted the significant advances achieved in
the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, which unfortunately risks being compromised
through the bad faith of Rwanda and its Congolese
rebel accomplices.
I have stressed how essential the support of the
international community is if we are to achieve this
process successfully and to launch the reconstruction
of my country. The Congolese people, who have
suffered so much, are asking only one thing of the
United Nations and the international community: that
justice be done for the weak and the strong, for rich
and poor alike.



"
56,2001,ERI,"﻿Please
allow me to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the
delegation of Eritrea, warm congratulations on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at
its fifty-sixth session. I am confident that, under your
wise and able leadership, our deliberations will come
to a fruitful conclusion. The Eritrean delegation assures
you of its full cooperation and support.
May I also extend to your predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri of Finland, our deep appreciation for the
skilful and wise manner in which he conducted the
deliberations of the fifty-fifth session.
I also wish to take this opportunity to extend
heartfelt congratulations, on behalf of the people and
Government of the State of Eritrea, to Mr. Kofi Annan
upon his well-deserved election for a second term. I am
certain that our Organization will benefit immensely
during his second term, as it did during his first, from
his vision, wisdom, competent leadership and selfless
dedication. I also wish to congratulate him and the
United Nations on their well-deserved awarding of the
2001 Nobel Peace Prize.
Allow me to express, on behalf of the people and
Government of the State of Eritrea, profound sorrow
and to extend sincere condolences to the people and
Government of the United States of America in this
their time of grief following the hateful attacks of 11
September. We also wish to extend our heartfelt
sympathy and condolences for the victims of the
painful aeroplane crash of 12 November.
The Government of Eritrea condemns the
barbaric act committed against innocent civilians by a
few craven terrorists. From the outset, we declared
solidarity with the people and Government of the
United States against those heinous acts.
Terrorism violates the most basic of human
rights: the right to life. Therefore, we must all unite in
the protection of all our citizens against these
dastardly, desperate acts perpetrated by individuals or
organized terrorist networks. There should be no
impunity for such criminals.
Humankind entered the new millennium with
optimism and hope — and for good reason. It had
recognized, through bitter experience, the folly of war
and conflict and the virtue of peace, good-
neighbourliness and cooperative relations. It had had
the opportunity to review past achievements and errors
and to identify sources of strength and weakness. It had
evolved lofty norms, values and principles. It had
established refined procedures and created effective
mechanisms to guarantee their implementation.
Unfortunately, however, humankind had not yet
mustered the necessary determination or the collective
will to translate that vision into reality. It is evident
that it has not yet learned the ways of comprehensive
peace. The full blooming of a culture of peace and
development remains so near and yet so distant.
Consequently, two years into the new millennium,
we continue to witness with dismay immense poverty
and want in the midst of massive wealth in the world,
deprivation in spite of the enormous advances in
science and technology, wilful violations of human
6

rights and manifestations of mutual hatred and
hostility.
The statistics are dismal. Yet, we must not be
unduly alarmed, if only because it is too early to be
discouraged by unfulfilled and unkept promises. On the
contrary, we must decide to confront the challenges,
including the depressing disparity between the rich and
the poor, and issues of war and peace and violations of
human rights.
We must collectively address the new forces that
are being unleashed by science and technology,
including globalization. Globalization can serve as an
effective instrument for establishing an equitable and
just relationship between the rich and the poor and for
promoting sustainable development to the mutual
benefit of all. However, this can be achieved only if a
cooperative mechanism is established immediately,
during this critically early stage of the twenty-first
century, before we are overtaken by the speed of the
technology and information revolution. It is equally
important that the capacities of the poor nations be
increased without delay in order to ensure their
effective participation in the global economy.
It must also be acknowledged that peace, security
and stability are closely linked to development. It need
not be emphasized that there is no development without
peace, and no peace without security. To this end, all
efforts must also include development concerns.
The world continues to be plagued by wars and
conflicts that have spilled over from the previous
century, in spite of the international community’s
efforts and full commitment to peace, security and
stability.
The African continent has perhaps fared the worst
in the last few years, as it has been beleaguered by
repeated economic catastrophes, political disruptions
and inter-State and intra-State conflicts.
It is a source of deep concern to us that
globalization has had a severely negative impact on
African economies. It has deepened their
marginalization and kept them from benefiting from
the global economy. Africa suffers more than any other
region from extreme poverty and, indeed, from
recurrent famine. Plagues like malaria, tuberculosis,
HIV/AIDS, diarrhoea and a host of other debilitating
and fatal tropical diseases have, in many cases, reached
biblical proportions. The decimation of populations has
had horrendous consequences on many already weak
economies.
In addition to economic crises and poverty,
conflicts, wars and civil strife have prominently
afflicted Africa during the past decade and a half. In
1999, close to 20 conflicts were wreaking havoc on the
continent. It was in acknowledgement of the gravity of
the matter that the Organization of African Unity
Summit, held in Algiers in 1999, decided to declare
2000 as the year for ending conflicts and giving
momentum to peace.
It was an auspicious year. There were
encouraging signs in the Sudan, Somalia and the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, and a
comprehensive peace agreement was signed between
Eritrea and Ethiopia. Yet much remains to be done. It is
encouraging to note that Africans are making great and
sustained efforts to resolve the conflicts in Sierra
Leone, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, the Great Lakes region,
Somalia and the Sudan at the regional level.
In the same vein, a just and durable solution to
the problem in the Middle East must be found through
the creation of a fully independent Palestinian State.
The international community must be involved
more meaningfully in assisting the peoples of these
countries. Yet, the primary responsibility for resolving
conflict, achieving national reconciliation and
establishing peace, security and stability lies with the
peoples and leaders of these countries. It must also be
emphasized that, while any regional assistance
rendered is to be appreciated, it must be predicated
upon the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of the
assisted countries. Such assistance should be based on
lofty principles and aimed at serving the interests and
well-being of the countries in question.
The Horn of Africa has been a zone of conflict
for the past four decades. Peace, security, stability and
development are the collective responsibility of the
States of the region. It behoves them to earnestly
promote, protect and consolidate cooperative relations
on the basis of mutual respect for each other’s
sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity, renunciation
of the threat or use of force, peaceful settlement of
disputes, good-neighbourly relations and peaceful
coexistence.
Since its independence in 1993, the State of
Eritrea has espoused national security and development
7

policies and programmes based on the premise that our
security and development interests are closely linked to
regional security and prosperity. To this end, it actively
engaged itself in the revitalization of the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD)
and the propagation of IGAD’s new mission. IGAD is
now fully engaged in peacemaking and conflict
resolution and coordinating cooperative efforts among
its member States. In this context, my delegation
wishes to extend special thanks to President Daniel
arap Moi of Kenya and President Ismail Omar Guelleh
of Djibouti for their dedicated, unbiased and untiring
efforts to bring peace to the Sudan and Somalia
respectively.
The search for durable peace, security and
stability must be the collective commitment of all
member States of IGAD and it must be anchored solely
in the welfare and best interests of the peoples
concerned. Peace in Somalia is vital, and it should not
be held hostage by any Government under the pretext
of preserving its national security. History and the
Somali people will make them responsible if they
become an obstacle or try to hinder peacemaking
efforts in the region.
The world welcomed the signing of the
Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities, a
comprehensive peace Agreement between Eritrea and
Ethiopia. It has expressed the hope that the
implementation of the Agreement will proceed
smoothly and will lead to a durable peace.
Both countries owe it to their people and to the
entire international community to establish a durable
peace as soon as possible. We face the challenge of
meeting the hopes and great expectations of our people
and of the international community. Eritrea solemnly
reiterates not only its abiding commitment to the peace
Agreement and its speedy implementation, but also its
undertaking to fully cooperate with all its partners in
the peace process.
The peace process has made significant progress.
However, I should like to inform the Assembly that key
provisions of the peace Agreement remain
unimplemented because the Government of Ethiopia
has failed to comply with its obligations. It has, to date,
obstructed the establishment of the temporary security
zone and the establishment of a direct air route
between the capitals of the two countries. Moreover, it
has refused to submit operationally useful information
on its minefields in the temporary security zone and to
release civilian detainees and war prisoners.
It has also resumed the deportation of Eritreans
and Ethiopians of Eritrean origin, in blatant violation
of the comprehensive peace Agreement between the
two countries. The last round of deportation occurred
on 25 June 2001 and was strongly condemned by the
United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea
(UNMEE) and the International Committee of the Red
Cross.
Under these circumstances, it is surprising that
Ethiopia has recently accused Eritrea of placing its
army on high alert and of deploying its troops along the
common border. This baseless accusation, refuted by
the Secretary-General’s Special Representative in
Eritrea and Ethiopia, is designed to hide Ethiopia’s
plans and intentions to sabotage the peace process by
provoking hostilities.
The Government of Eritrea has consistently
undertaken, in good faith, to comply fully with the
provisions of the Algiers Agreement, in spite of the
intransigence of the Government of Ethiopia and its
violation of it.
The Government of Eritrea wishes to extend
sincere appreciation to, and applauds the effort of, the
peace partners, particularly the United Nations, the
European Union, the Organization of African Unity
and the Governments of the United States and Algeria.
It also extends its profound thanks to the friends of
UNMEE for their immense contribution to the peace
process. At the same time, it urges the international
community to exert extra effort to persuade the
Ethiopian Government to fulfil its legal obligations
under the Algiers peace Agreement and the United
Nations Charter without delay.
Eritrea has always been consistent in its
condemnation of terrorism, irrespective of the
perpetrators or victims. It has itself become the victim
of terrorist attacks by elements organized, financed,
trained and armed by the Ethiopian Government. These
terrorists are often joined by Ethiopian troops and
militias in their heinous crimes against innocent
civilians. We urge the international community to
condemn these barbarous acts and to demand that the
Ethiopian Government cease its activities and hostile
acts as soon as possible.
8

In conclusion, despite its regrettable experience
with the United Nations in the early days, Eritrea is
fully convinced that the Organization has played a
crucial role in the maintenance of international peace
and security and has contributed immensely to the
promotion and protection of human rights, as well as to
economic development and social progress.
Eritrea is fully and unequivocally committed to
strengthening the United Nations. To this end, we
believe that the United Nations must proceed with a
process of change and reform that will reinforce the
principle of equality among all its Members and
guarantee its impartiality and neutrality. Hence, we
fully endorse the position of the Non-Aligned
Movement on membership of the Security Council and
the question of a periodic review of its structure and
functions. We are confident that much will be achieved
under the visionary leadership of Mr. Kofi Annan
during his second term of office.
"
56,2001,UGA,"﻿There is a lot of talk
floating around regarding some catchwords: the “new
international order”, “globalization”, the “global
village” and so forth. All of these ebullient, self-
gratifying positions are, apparently, due to the end of
the cold war between the Western countries and the
former Soviet Union. Of course, the end of the
dangerous and misguided rivalry between communism
and capitalism is welcome and has, indeed, opened
some new opportunities, if fully utilized by all
concerned.
However, it must be pointed out unequivocally
that many of the problems in the world today predate
the cold war; they predate the onset of communism in
Russia in 1917. The slave trade started in the 1440s
along the West African coast. A shift from bleeding
Africa through slavery to resident colonialism was
ordained in Berlin in 1884. That was long before
communism took over in Russia. Therefore the cold
war could not have been responsible for these mistakes
and for the complications they created, many of which
we are still grappling with today, especially in Africa.
Therefore, the euphoria that followed the end of
the cold war was not wholly justified. The song about
globalization, as I have pointed out repeatedly, is not a
new tune at all. Africans were globalized as slaves all
over all over the world in the 1440s. My Christian
name is Joel, actually a Jewish name, so I am already
globalized. Many of my countrymen have got Arab
names like Azizi and Musa because they are Muslims.
We were globalized long ago in Africa. Unfortunately,
though, that globalization movement was parasitic. It
was a parasitic globalization movement; it was not a
symbiotic globalization movement. Therefore the only
new question we can legitimately and usefully ask is:
Will the new phase of globalization be less parasitic
and more symbiotic, or not? That is the question. Will
the new globalization be to everybody’s mutual benefit,
or will it be the old story of parasitism on a global
scale?
The parasitism in the world is not the sole
responsibility of those who benefit from inequality.
Even the victims have always contributed to their
marginalization by their own wrong aims and
methods — before colonization, during colonization
and, even, after colonization. Myopic African chiefs
were the main facilitators of the slave trade. Until very
recently the Europeans did not possess the
technological means to subdue the African continent as
far as means of transport — that is to say, railways —
weapons or medicine were concerned. Without the
fratricidal, brother-against-brother wars fomented by
African chiefs, neither the slave trade nor colonialism
would have been possible. We would have defeated the
colonialists and forced them, right from the beginning,
to cooperate with us to everybody’s mutual benefit.
Weakness on the side of the potential victim always
tempts the aggressor. The aggressor is always
encouraged by the weakness of the potential victim.
9

Even today, however, the authorship of the
inequality among peoples is still a joint responsibility
of the victims — who in this case are Africans, Arabs
and other marginalized peoples — of the parasitic
globalization movement that is now 500 years old, on
the one hand, and the beneficiaries of this hitherto
unequal and, in the past, evil movement, on the other
hand. Both the victims and the beneficiaries of the
parasitic globalization movement are responsible for
this situation. The beneficiaries of the hitherto parasitic
globalization movement have been the North
Americans, the Europeans and the Japanese.
For a variety of reasons, some formerly colonized
peoples — such as the Indians, Indonesians, Pakistanis,
South-East Asians and Native Americans — and
formerly semi-colonized peoples, such as the Chinese,
have made significant upward movements that are
helping, slowly but surely, to even out the balance of
power in the world. Some other peoples, however, on
account of a number of endogenous and exogenous
factors, are still living as the wretched of the Earth.
Many Africans and some Arabs fall into this category
of the still-unredeemed of the Earth. As I have said, the
unredeemed are so categorized partly on account of
their own internal mistakes — such as sectarianism,
xenophobia, unprincipled conflicts, the strangulation of
free enterprise, the political balkanization of their
regions, the strangulation of political freedoms and so
on — and partly on account of still very unfavourable
exogenous factors. The most unfavourable such factor
is the lack of access by these countries to markets in
North America, the European Union, Japan, China,
India and Russia.
The song about aid is meaningless without access
to markets. Aid without access to markets is
meaningless. All protectionism must end, especially in
the countries of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation in Europe (OECD). Subsidies to the
farmers of Europe must end, if we are talking of a
global village of symbiosis, and not parasitism. I
commend the American Government and President
George Bush for the recent African Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) initiative. Although Uganda
has not yet benefited from AGOA on account of our
endogenous weaknesses, which have been accentuated
by the blurred views of our partners in the multilateral
institutions, other African countries have started
benefit, such as Kenya, Madagascar, Lesotho, Nigeria
and South Africa. This is good. The African Growth
and Opportunity Act enunciated by the American
Government is the first good news I have heard in a
long time. The Americans are at last beginning to
change their image of being parasitic global villagers.
The Europeans must catch up with the Americans
in shedding this uncomplimentary label. Although they
have talked about “everything but guns” going into
Europe from Africa, they are still giving subsidies to
artificial farmers in Europe. As a consequence of the
$1.2 trillion value of global trade in agricultural
products, Africa gets only about $20 billion — if the
recent results of the African Growth and Opportunity
Act (AGOA) are included; that is about 2 per cent of
the total. So of the total value of agricultural trade,
Africa only gets 2 per cent. At the same time, the
countries of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) are spending
$361 billion on artificial subsidies for farmers of those
countries. Yet these are the countries that evangelize in
the name of free trade. The preachers of free trade are
practising incredibly expensive protectionism. What an
unfortunate paradox. These double standards must end.
Africa has removed some of the old impediments,
some of the old endogenous factors, to private
investment. The sanctity of private property is now
almost a universal concept in Africa. Nationalization of
private enterprises is no more. Some of the African
countries have a consistently stable macroeconomic
framework. Inflation in Uganda is now negative 0.3 per
cent. The African currencies are now convertible; a
large part of Africa is very peaceful; infrastructure is
reasonable; and democracy is widely practised in
Africa today. We are even addressing the issue of the
excessive political Balkanization of the continent,
which has 53 States, compared to 3 States in the whole
North American continent.
We are handling this in a variety of ways,
including through economic blocs like the Southern
Africa Development Community in southern Africa,
the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
in East and Central Africa and the Economic
Community of West African States in western Africa.
The world needs to encourage these positive trends in
Africa by opening up their markets on a quota-free,
tariff-free basis. This will, ipso facto, force
multinational investors to rush to Africa and invest
there. They are already doing so just by the limited
AGOA measures by the Americans. With more
civilized aims and methods, balanced world
10

development is possible and desirable for everybody,
including OECD citizens who are forced to eat inferior
foods and are taxed to protect those poor-quality foods
against better foods from Africa.
Whenever I travel abroad, I pack my own
Ugandan foods — milk, millet flour, fruits, legumes,
chicken, honey and plantain bananas, called matooke in
our language. The other day, on my way here, my
pineapple stocks ran out and my staff bought
pineapples from a supermarket in the United Kingdom.
I took just one slice and terminated the whole exercise
at once. First of all, the pineapple was hard. I had never
seen a hard pineapple until I saw that one in London. It
was less sweet and had an ammonia-like pungent taste.
I had had the same experience in Washington once.
They brought something they called a pineapple. I
could not believe it. Why must citizens of the world
endure these deprivations on account of policies
designed to serve narrow interests? Why must this be?
I will not eat pineapple again until I go back to
Uganda.
The oppressors, the colonialists and those who
sought to control the destiny of others used barbaric
methods: genocide, forced labour, ethnocide and so on.
It is amazing, therefore, that some of those who claim
to be fighting for the liberation of oppressed peoples
also use barbaric means such as terrorism. In the
ongoing debate on terrorism I have not heard anybody
bothering to define the difference between a freedom
fighter and a terrorist. What is the difference between a
freedom fighter and a terrorist? Mzee Nelson
Mandela — “Mzee” means someone who is dignified
and elderly — was a freedom fighter until recently.
Was he a terrorist? Not at all. Did anyone hear that Mr.
Mandela had hijacked a plane or planted a bomb in a
restaurant? But Mr. Mandela was a freedom fighter. He
was not a terrorist. The difference between a terrorist
and a freedom fighter lies in the fact that while a
freedom fighter sometimes may be forced to use
violence, he cannot use indiscriminate violence. The
person who uses indiscriminate violence is a terrorist.
A freedom fighter may sometimes be forced to use
violence.
I was forced to use violence against Idi Amin.
But I never hijacked a plane. It was never heard that
Museveni hijacked a plane or planted a bomb in a bar.
People in bars are not politicians. Some of them just go
there to make merry. What kind of revolutionary is
someone who kills such people? The person who uses
indiscriminate violence is a terrorist. A terrorist does
not differentiate between combatants and non-
combatants, between civilians and servicemen and
between armed servicemen and unarmed servicemen.
Even if someone is a soldier, if he is off duty, he should
not be attacked, if one claims to be a freedom fighter.
He should not be attacked. It is against the laws of war.
The terrorist fights a war without declaring one. That is
why terrorists hijack planes, plant bombs in populated
centres and so forth.
We normally get technical advice from other parts
of the world. The Europeans always come to give us
technical advice. I would like to give you technical
advice about freedom-fighting. We have done very well
in that. In Africa, since 1961, we have fought wars of
liberation in Mozambique against the Portuguese; in
Angola against the Portuguese; in Guinea-Bissau
against the Portuguese; in Zimbabwe against minority
whites; in South Africa against minority whites; in
Namibia against minority whites; and in Uganda
against Idi Amin. There was a criminal called Idi Amin
whom we had to fight. However, we never used
terrorism. This is on the record. We always fought
combatant to combatant. Quite a number of times our
comrades used mass action: strikes, demonstrations,
petitions, diplomatic struggle and so on. Not a single
plane was hijacked by African freedom fighters,
although there were anti-colonial wars in all these
countries.
Terrorist actions are misguided and criminal and
must be opposed by all as a matter of principle. Africa
was beginning to benefit from AGOA, the measure
taken by the Americans to open their markets to our
goods. Business has, however, now somewhat slumped
in America. Therefore, the terrorists, who claim to be
fighting for the Palestinian cause, are objectively
hurting the interests of Africans, who have always been
the allies of the Palestinians. This is counter-
productive. The terrorists have also tried to polarize the
world, pitting Moslems against Christians. This is
erroneous and unacceptable. Exploitation knows no
boundaries and cuts across all races and religions.
Exploiters are found in all religions and races. The
Arabs had to oppose Turkish imperialism. Yet both the
Arabs and the Turks were Muslims. Why, then, did
they have to oppose each other? One of the monsters of
the last century, Idi Amin, of my country, was a
Muslim. We had to get rid of him to liberate everybody,
including the Muslims, in Uganda. War has been going
11

on in the Sudan for decades. Elements that claim to be
acting in the name of Islam have been the ones taking
the wrong position in this conflict, seeking hegemony
over God’s people.
I, therefore, support the position of the United
States on this occasion, as we did in the Gulf War, in
fighting and defeating these reactionaries, who profane
the name of freedom fighters. If necessary, all countries
of the world opposed to terrorism should contribute
troops and finish the job quickly. The coalition against
terrorism should be regarded in the same way as the
coalition against fascism in the 1930s and 1940s.
Nevertheless, the just aspirations of the
Palestinian people and of other oppressed peoples, like
the people of southern Sudan, must be supported so
that we can get peaceful resolutions to these conflicts. I
welcome freedom and equality for all peoples of the
world. Those who strive to dominate or exploit others
have illegitimate ambitions. We now have a chance to
build a new, just world. The free will of all peoples
should be ensured. In addition, the most important
instrument of emancipation, free trade, should give
African goods quota- and tariff-free access to the
markets of the countries of the Organization for
Cooperation and Development (OECD) and vice versa.
Africa is beginning to tame its conflicts. The
conflict in Lesotho was resolved by an African
mechanism. Recently, the Arusha Agreement on Peace
and Reconciliation ended the conflict in Burundi. It is
possible to resolve our age-old problems and finally
become part of the new world order rather than mere
spectators of the process.


"
56,2001,MDV,"﻿It gives me great
pleasure, on behalf of my country, to congratulate
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to the presidency of
the General Assembly. His election to that high office
29

demonstrates the international community's respect for
and confidence in his ability to guide the work of this
session successfully. It also demonstrates the trust and
high regard that the international community has for
the Republic of Korea and for the important role that
country is playing in the international arena to foster
peace and security in the world. I would also like to
take this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, for the
exemplary manner in which he guided the work of the
fifty-fifth session.
Allow me also to congratulate the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, on his
reappointment to head the Organization for a second
term. His dynamic leadership has earned the United
Nations the confidence of the international community
and has raised fresh hopes about the Organization's
ability to facilitate a world atmosphere more conducive
to peace, justice and human dignity as we enter the
twenty-first century. The award of the Nobel Peace
Prize to the Secretary-General and to the United
Nations is testimony to that confidence.
Nearly 13 years ago, the Maldives woke up to the
horrors of terrorism when a band of foreign terrorists
attacked Male, our capital island, without the slightest
warning or provocation, killing many innocent people
and destroying property. By their faceless act of
violence, they changed the peaceful life we had had in
our country for centuries into one full of fear and
apprehension.
On 11 September this year, the most powerful
country, the United States of America, itself became a
target and the victim of a horrendous act of terrorism.
The world community was shocked and promptly
condemned the barbaric attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon, and the murder of thousands
of innocent people. Consistent with its stand against
terrorism, the Maldives found itself among the first
States to condemn those attacks in the strongest
possible terms.
The tragedy of 11 September has reminded us
that terrorism is one of the biggest challenges facing
the world community today. It has emerged as an
enemy of nations, be they large or small, and as a
vicious threat to humanity. In combating such a cruel
enemy, it is important that international action against
terrorism be supported and that it be complemented by
measures at the regional and national levels.
At the international level, the legal doctrine
against all aspects of terrorism must be strengthened
and universalized. Concomitantly, action at the
regional and national levels must be brought into line
with international obligations in fighting this global
menace. The United Nations, as the global organization
responsible for international peace and security, must
play the pivotal role in this fight against terrorism. My
country fully supports the early convening of a high-
level conference, under the auspices of the United
Nations, to formulate a clear definition of terrorism and
to draw up a joint, far-sighted reaction to the ever-
growing phenomena of terrorism in its various forms
and manifestations. We are also looking forward to the
early conclusion of a comprehensive convention on
international terrorism and of an international
convention for the prevention of acts of terrorism using
nuclear, biological or chemical material or agents.
As a people who have devoted themselves to the
practice of Islamic faith and values for nearly a
millennium, we are deeply offended by the notion that
terrorism is linked to Islam or to Muslims. On the
contrary, Islam advocates peace, compassion, tolerance
and peaceful coexistence. The projection and portrayal
of Islam as an enemy of civilization or of the free
world is an insult to its noble principles. It is a
perverted view and a falsification of Islam and its
principles. Such perversions are nothing but
propaganda hatched by evil people who wish to breed
hatred among human beings; their claims are no less
harmful than terrorism itself.
At the Millennium Summit last year, our leaders
charted a course for a better world, a world in which
the whole of humanity can prosper in mutual respect
and dignity. Navigating smoothly along that course will
be a difficult task. We have to be ready to boldly
address the challenges in our way.
Over the past year, we met in several special
sessions to address some specific important issues. On
each and every such occasion, we demonstrated our
firm resolve to uphold the objectives set forth in the
Millennium Declaration. The major cross-cutting
theme that runs deep in all these issues is the
dehumanizing scourge of poverty. Poverty remains the
major stumbling block for sustainable social and
economic development in the developing world.
Eradicating poverty, therefore, is core to the attainment
of peace and development. Let us therefore make the
elimination of poverty our top priority and pursue
30

vigorously the target set by our leaders during the
Millennium Summit: to halve poverty by 2015.
The commitments we have undertaken at such
conferences involve high price tags. Unless new and
additional financial resources are made available in a
timely and predictable manner, no action plans or
programmes can be implemented. It is therefore a
collective responsibility of the entire international
community, including the private-sector stakeholders
and civil society, to muster the necessary political will
that is so vital in this regard. We are eagerly looking
forward to the International Conference on Financing
for Development to be held in Mexico early next year.
We hope that that event will provide the international
community with an opportunity to agree on new,
innovative and additional sources and strategies to
mobilize funds for development.
Globalization is now a reality. Many in the
developed world are enjoying the unprecedented yield
of globalization, while its powerful forces are
depressing the fragile economies of many developing
and least developed countries, including structurally
weak countries. The uneven playing field has indeed
contributed to widening the gap between the rich and
the poor. In fact, the obstacles to the development of
the least developed countries have grown in number
and magnitude over the years and have marginalized
those countries in the world economy. My country, the
Maldives, is heartened by the goodwill and solidarity
extended by the international community to the least
developed countries during the Third United Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries held in
Brussels early this year. It is now time for delivery on
the commitments made at the Brussels Conference.
Unless those commitments are fulfilled, the plight of
the least developed countries will continue to worsen.
The special circumstances and needs of the small
island developing States (SIDS) have been recognized
and acknowledged by this Assembly on numerous
occasions. The Barbados Programme of Action very
clearly spells out these special needs of SIDS.
Although many SIDS may appear to be relatively more
prosperous on the basis of per capita income level, it is
also a documented fact that, due to the special
characteristics of small islands, they are generally
among the most economically vulnerable and
handicapped countries in the world today.
As a country with little more than a quarter of a
million inhabitants spread over more than 200 islands,
bereft of natural resources and with a fragile economy
based on fisheries and tourism, which are sensitive to
the harsh realities of ecology and the environment, the
Maldives provides a perfect example of this dilemma
of the small island developing States.
The stable political environment that the
Maldives has enjoyed for the past two decades,
combined with the continued flow of assistance from
our development partners, have indeed given us the
opportunity to improve the quality of life of our
people. Our efforts towards development have
remained relentless, as the structural constraints we
face are both persistent and formidable.
Given these realities, my country is convinced
that the present criteria for identifying least developed
countries need to be refined to reflect the impediments
in full. We appeal to the Committee for Development
Policy and the international community to consider
these realities on the ground and to look beyond
abstract indicators into the inherent vulnerabilities of
small island developing States in determining the
criteria for graduation.
We do not wish to remain indefinitely in the
category of least developed countries. However, should
graduation be thrust upon us prematurely, its negative
consequences could easily overwhelm us and result in
serious erosion of our achievements. We need to
strengthen the capacity of our human resources and
institutions to cope with existing and emerging
challenges to our development efforts. We need to find
ways and means to diversify our economic base and
strengthen its sustainability.
We welcome the recent resolution adopted by the
Economic and Social Council to extend our transition
period until the next triennial review of the list of least
developed countries in 2003. At the same time, we
wish to reiterate our belief that ensuring a smooth
transition for graduating countries, in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 46/206, is an essential
obligation of the entire international community.
Indeed, a decision that affects the future destiny of a
nation should not be based on hastily compiled
information that may contain erroneous assumptions
and dubious facts that could mislead the competent
authorities, leading them to reach questionable
conclusions.
31

The state of the global environment remains a
major concern of the international community. A
decade after the adoption of Agenda 21, its effective
implementation has proven to be a difficult task. The
pleas of small island developing States for new and
additional resources to implement the Barbados
Programme of Action remain to be heeded. The Kyoto
Protocol is yet to come into force. Meanwhile,
scientific predictions on the future of the global
environment remain alarming. Unless swift and
concrete action is forthcoming, global environmental
degradation will continue to threaten the survival of
humankind and our planet. The consequences of a mere
one-metre rise in the mean sea level on small island
developing States, such as the Maldives, is now a well-
documented fact. We, therefore, urge the international
community to accelerate its efforts to agree on a legally
binding greenhouse gas emissions reduction regime
and to facilitate the Kyoto Protocol's early entry into
force. In this connection, we are encouraged by the
positive developments achieved in Marrakech last
week and hope that these developments will facilitate
an early entry into force of the Protocol.
A year from now, we will gather in Johannesburg,
South Africa, for the Rio + 10 Summit to take stock of
our labour over the past decade to protect and preserve
the global environment. My country believes that this
would be an excellent opportunity for the international
community to reinvigorate its efforts and rededicate its
commitments to protect and preserve the global
environment.
The Maldives attaches great importance to the
efforts of the international community to foster
sustainable social development. The five-year review
of the Copenhagen commitments and Beijing Platform
for Action, carried out last year, and the recently
concluded review of the implementation of the
outcome of the Second United Nations Conference on
Human Settlements (Habitat Agenda), as well as the
World Conference against Racism and Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
have added renewed impetus to the efforts of the
international community to achieve social harmony.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic has become a major
impediment to social development. The Maldives, too,
has not been immune to the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
Although the number of cases may be relatively low in
our country, we are fully aware of the potential threat
that looms over us. We pledge our full support to the
Programme of Action adopted by the special session of
the General Assembly on HIV/AIDS early this year,
and we call on the international community, including
the private sector stakeholders, to commit the financial
resources required to implement the Programme of
Action.
My country wholeheartedly supports the just
struggle of the Palestinian people. My country
commends the efforts of the co-sponsors of the Middle
East peace process to help put the talks back on track.
We strongly believe that the Mitchell report should be
implemented urgently to pave the way for restarting the
stalled peace process.
Disarmament and arms control measures continue
to remain a high priority on the international agenda.
While we were encouraged by the positive outcome of
the NPT Review Conference last year, we would like to
reiterate the need for continuing efforts to strengthen
and enforce the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Similarly, we look forward to the day when the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) will
come into force.
In conclusion, allow me to reaffirm the firm
commitment of the Maldives to the principles and
objectives enshrined in the United Nations Charter. We
will work with the other members of the international
community to uphold and promote these lofty
objectives. We remain convinced that the United
Nations is the only organization that is capable of
creating a more peaceful and prosperous world for
humanity.






"
56,2001,THA,"﻿It is an honour for
me to deliver this statement on behalf of Mr. Surakiart
Sathirathai, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Thailand.
Allow me to join all previous speakers in expressing
our deepest sympathies to the families and friends of
those who lost their lives or suffered from the tragic
incidents of 11 September 2001. The people and
Government of Thailand share the feelings of sorrow
and outrage caused by those acts of terrorism. Our
condolences go to the people and Government of the
United States.
I wish to extend my congratulations to the
President on his election to the presidency for the fifty-
sixth session of the General Assembly and express my
full confidence that, under his guidance, we shall be
able to build upon the United Nations Millennium
Declaration and accomplish our goals of bringing
peace, prosperity and well-being to this world.
I also wish to express our warmest
congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi Annan on
his being conferred the Nobel Peace Prize, together
with the United Nations, as well as on his re-election as
Secretary-General. This prestigious recognition has
been made because of the tireless efforts of the
Secretary-General himself and of the dedicated United
Nations staff. The achievement of the Secretary-
General is noted in his Millennium Report, which
encapsulates the United Nations activities ahead,
outlines the framework for the tasks and focuses on
people as the centre of development, both at the
international and national levels.
After the events of 11 September 2001, the shared
destiny of the world will depend greatly on how we
manage to cope with these emerging new realities and
growing complexities. No country is truly safe from
terrorism and no one is capable of fighting it alone.
Now is the time for every nation to contribute and
participate in the joint efforts to combat terrorism.
In Thailand, we resolutely condemn all forms of
terrorism and are fully supportive of all the
international community’s efforts to combat this grave
threat to global peace and security. Thailand supports
all actions against terrorism in the framework of the
United Nations and in accordance with the relevant
resolutions of the United Nations and international law.
We have extended cooperation to the international
37

community through existing laws, such as those on
mutual assistance in criminal matters in the form of
information exchange and intelligence sharing. The
Thai Government is amending existing domestic
legislation and regulations to enable the country to be
party to relevant international conventions, especially
the International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism.
At the regional level, Thailand has participated
actively in the recent regional gatherings at the highest
level, where international terrorism received a high
priority, namely the recent Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders Meeting in
Shanghai. We joined other APEC leaders in expressing
grave concern over the threat to world peace and the
stability of the world economy caused by terrorism and
in reaffirming a renewed sense of urgency to restore
confidence to the global economy.
At the 7th Summit of the Association of South-
East Asian Nations (ASEAN) on 5 November 2001 in
Brunei Darussalam, ASEAN leaders issued a
declaration outlining specific measures to further
strengthen cooperation to deal with the threat of
terrorism in the region. Measures proposed include the
enhancement of intelligence exchange and the
deepening of cooperation among law enforcement
agencies. ASEAN leaders also stressed the need to
strengthen cooperation with ASEAN Dialogue Partners
and within the framework of the ASEAN Regional
Forum and affirmed that the United Nations should
play a major role in this regard.
My country, Thailand, supports a ministerial-level
international conference on international terrorism,
under the auspices of the United Nations, to be held at
the earliest opportunity. This should facilitate the
discussion of problems and cooperation on
antiterrorism, leading to possible concrete measures at
the global level. Terrorism should not be identified
with any ethnic group, faith, or nationality. Otherwise,
our efforts could result in greater danger for our
peoples.
International terrorism has also exacerbated the
slowdown in the global economy. This carries with it
significant social ramifications as well. Airlines,
tourism and related industries worldwide have felt the
impact of international tension. Countries already
struggling to recover from the recent economic
slowdown are preparing to safeguard their economies
from sliding further into sluggishness. Confronted with
the ever widening gap between developed and
developing countries, the United Nations and Member
States must work together to arrest and reverse this
trend.
The efforts to bridge the gap must not be confined
to the United Nations framework alone. The World
Trade Organization meeting in Doha, Qatar, which was
just concluded, was a timely opportunity in which
nations proved that they could work together and
achieve substantial progress in pushing forward the
global trade agenda for the common good of the world.
Since assuming office early this year, the present
Thai Government has been pursuing a new approach to
economic and social policy. The Thai Government has
introduced a series of economic and social schemes
aimed at promoting the capacity-building of the people
at the grass-roots level. For instance, it has established
the People’s Bank and microcredit schemes for both the
rural and the urban poor. This is to assist each
community by financing small, local projects so as to
develop and market a community’s own products based
on local know-how. In addition, more than 2 million
small-scale Thai farmers will benefit from the
Government’s debt suspension scheme and a
nationwide health insurance scheme.
On the issue of Afghanistan, the United Nations
and the international community, in collaboration with
the Afghans themselves, must move quickly to
formulate modalities that would help restore order and
stability. We should also render all possible assistance
to Afghanistan, starting with assistance of a
humanitarian nature at this crucial time and assistance
aimed at capacity-building in the near future. Thailand,
for its part, will provide a fairly large amount of rice —
approximately 3,000 metric tons — as food relief for
the Afghans. The Thai Red Cross has also donated
10,000 blankets.
Within our own region of South-East Asia,
Thailand has reinvigorated bilateral relations with our
immediate neighbours and has cooperated closely in
pursuing a common vision of opening borders. We
have also decided to establish joint production bases
and transportation linkages. These initiatives carry on
the momentum begun last year when the Economic and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP)
adopted a resolution proposed by Thailand on the
“Decade of Greater Mekong Subregion Development
38

Cooperation, 2000-2009”. This subregion has been
placed at the forefront of the Asia-Pacific development
agenda. In addition, Thailand also has a role in keeping
peace in the region. We take special pride in the fact
that two Thai Generals have successively served as
Force Commanders of the United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor (UNTAET), the
successor operation to the International Force in East
Timor (INTERFET). This is part and parcel of
Thailand’s commitment to shouldering its fair share of
international responsibility, particularly in South-East
Asia.
We envisage the United Nations playing a major
role in strengthening the foundation for a future world
that will be peaceful, tolerant, and sustainable for our
peoples and future generations. Therefore, Thailand is
fully supportive of the United Nations Year of
Dialogue among Civilizations and participated actively
in the recently concluded World Conference against
Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and
Related Intolerance held in Durban, South Africa.
As we celebrate the fifty-sixth anniversary of the
United Nations, and as we congratulate the Secretary-
General and the Organization, we must ask ourselves:
what do we expect of the United Nations? I believe we
expect it to work even harder towards cultivating a
culture of peace, as well as improving the pace of
international social and economic development. In
these endeavours, we believe that rich and poor nations
alike must contribute in their varied capacities. These
national efforts must go hand in hand with those of the
United Nations.
Let us focus on the immediate priorities of
maintaining peace and harmony in the world. Let us
pledge to work together with even greater vigour for
the political, economic, social, and physical well-being
of our peoples. These are, and should be, the enduring
priorities for the United Nations and for all humankind.








"
56,2001,DJI,"﻿In view
of the catastrophic events that took place on 11
September, it is only fitting that first and foremost we
once again offer our deepest condolences to the
Government and people of the United States. This was
a hateful and diabolical act of terrorism that claimed
thousands of precious human lives and caused untold
physical destruction, without parallel in history. This
brutal attack has put us all on notice. It was truly the
day the world changed.
One way or another, this tragedy affects us all.
Not a single country is immune from terrorism,
inasmuch as it is beyond the capacity of any one
27

country to counter it. The international community
must work together, ideally through the United
Nations, so that the counter-measures take the form of
legitimacy and acceptability. In this respect, Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) provides us with the
necessary framework.
We in Djibouti have already established a suitable
mechanism to counter terrorism, in all its aspects, that
could come from our territory. We are also in the
process of examining the existing international
conventions and protocols on terrorism with a view to
signing and ratifying them all. However, while doing
all this, we must not lose sight of the plight of the
people of Afghanistan — the terror, the desperation
and the starvation facing impoverished people during
this grave crisis. Also, we must not squander the
extraordinary opportunity we now have to examine all
possible or probable causes and deep roots of
terrorism, including attitudes, frustrations and current
economic and political conditions.
May I join the delegations that preceded me to
offer the President our congratulations on his brilliant
election as President of the General Assembly at its
fifty-sixth session. His vast experience and
demonstrated capacity and skills will indeed be vital to
our deliberations. We also wish to express our
appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of
Finland, whose leadership at the fifty-fifth session has
resulted in tangible achievements.
Permit me also to congratulate Secretary-General
Kofi Annan on his re-election and for the work he
accomplished during his first term, most notably for
the extent to which he was able to institute much-
needed reforms and restore the relevance and central
role of the United Nations, while enhancing its
capacity and effectiveness. He has recognized that far
too many people live on the margins of society,
reduced to silence by endemic poverty, debt, the AIDS
pandemic, tuberculosis and malaria. He has, in effect,
become the voice of the world’s silent majority. It is
not by chance, therefore, that, together with the
Organization he heads, he has received the Nobel
Peace Prize. We congratulate him wholeheartedly for
this distinct and rare honour bestowed upon him and
the United Nations system.
May I pay tribute to the Secretary-General for the
breadth and relevance of his report on the work of the
Organization. The United Nations has a vital role to
play in today’s rapidly evolving world, and the report
offers a comprehensive update on all its activities. With
reference to peace and security, as the Secretary-
General has stressed, we must all be struck by the
number of conflicts raging in the world today.
Preventing the recurrence of conflict is a central
priority, and this means that our focus needs to shift
from a culture of management and control to one of
prevention and long-term development.
Besides conflict, we are witness to enormous
human suffering caused by natural disasters and
complex situations that continue to grow in scale,
escalating the need for humanitarian assistance.
We are pleased to note that the Secretary-General
continues to place importance on the fight against
endemic poverty and that the international community
has launched a sustained campaign to make the right to
development a palpable reality for everyone. The
participation of the poor must become a priority in
order to eradicate rural poverty, to ensure the well-
being of children and to strengthen the earning
potential of women.
If we are to reduce by half the number of people
living in poverty by 2015, as called for in the
Millennium Declaration, we must substantially increase
Official Development Assistance, alleviate the debt
burden of the poorest countries and dismantle the
protectionist barriers of developed countries. The Least
Developed Countries, in particular, face enormous
obstacles, such as declining inflows of capital,
inadequate social services and the lack of
infrastructure, in addition to environmental constraints.
In essence, the Brussels Declaration and Programme of
Action for the Least Developed Countries for the
Decade 2001-2010 call for an increase in foreign
capital inflows, including Official Development
Assistance; direct foreign investment; an expansion of
debt relief; greater preferential market access and
increased technical assistance.
Silently but very quickly, the world is drifting
towards another dangerous crisis: water scarcity. By
2025, one in every three people worldwide will be
affected by the lack of water. Some 2.7 billion people
live in regions facing severe water shortages and, once
again, Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, which are the
most densely populated areas and among the areas of
least income, will be the hardest hit. Currently, 450
million people living in 29 countries, including my
28

own, Djibouti, are experiencing acute drinking water
shortages. Unlike oil and most other strategic
resources, drinking water has no substitute. Whether
water is needed for drinking, agriculture or
environment-related purposes, such as the survival of
lakes and rivers, we have on our hands a potential
crisis that risks causing an unprecedented disaster for
food security and the fight against hunger and poverty.
A combination of global warming, wasteful habits,
aridity and the lack of rainfall means that the water
sources millions traditionally rely on are now slowly
drying up. There is no longer enough water for all our
needs. Beyond the international treaties and
institutional mechanisms, the international community
must act to mitigate this crisis. Now is the time to act.
While the recent international terrorist attacks in
the United States have rightly dominated the world’s
attention, other pressing problems, such as the AIDS
pandemic, must still be urgently attended to. The
special session of the General Assembly devoted to this
scourge, held in June, took a decisive step towards
finding collective solutions, actions and commitments.
However, there is still concern that these non-binding
commitments may not be carried out. The global AIDS
fund launched by the Secretary-General has made some
progress, but contributions to date have fallen far short
of the expected target. We are now unfortunately
familiar with the statistics of deaths and the social and
economic devastation caused by this scourge,
particularly in Africa. In the search for a solution and
what measures to take, the debate has centred on
treatment versus prevention. Ideally, the best hope
would be for a preventative vaccine, but that solution
does not look promising. As one expert put it, “We are
at the end of the beginning of this epidemic, not at the
beginning of its end!”
The growth and exponential spread of
information technology, coupled with the demise of the
cold war, have, over the past decade, been determining
factors in shaping our views on development and the
global economy. With the advent of globalization, trade
expanded, capital flowed, investments increased,
economies liberalized and barriers to trade were
lowered. In addition, the private sector took on a
central role.
Unfortunately, as many have correctly observed,
the number of countries and individuals excluded from
the benefits of this phenomenon has risen inexorably.
The attempt to explain this dichotomy has led to many
troubling conclusions. For the poverty-stricken who
live on $1 per day, talk of technology, economic
growth, opportunity and prosperity is no more than
nice-sounding words. Their greatest daily concern is
the fear of not having enough to eat. Finding enough to
eat is a daily challenge for more than three billion
people on this planet. Despite the conflicts in Africa
currently making headlines, it is the precarious
existence of those left behind that has defined life on
the African continent for more than two generations.
Whatever the reasons for this endemic poverty,
the fact remains that unless we address the problem of
poverty in all its aspects, we will not get to the roots of
the problem. It is well known that millions of people in
Africa and throughout the world are simply too poor to
participate in the phenomenon of globalization and thus
miss out on the benefits of globalization. The President
of the World Bank has aptly put the issue of poverty in
perspective:
“... if you cannot deal with the question of
poverty, if you cannot deal with the issue of
equity, then you are not dealing with the question
of peace.”
He added:
“We will not solve the problems of poverty or
global peace or stability unless we change our
perception of poor people from the objects of
charity to an asset on which you can build a better
world.”
The persistence and spread of poverty hamper all
efforts for peace, security, development, democracy
and good governance. Peace and security require
increasing and strengthening the United Nations
capacity to prevent crises, to react to emerging threats
and to implement peace-building programmes. In this
regard, the Security Council has a preponderant role. It
is obvious that our inability to reform the Council so
that it can respond to the needs of the international
reality of today can only diminish the legitimacy of its
functioning and decisions.
During the fifty-fourth session of the General
Assembly in September 1999, my President, Ismail
Omar Guelleh, outlined a series of proposals on the re-
establishment of peace in Somalia. A year later, during
the fifty-fifth session, he related to this Assembly the
extraordinary sacrifices and burdens borne by the
Government and people of Djibouti, together with a
29

number of Governments and organizations of good
will, to bring together the true representatives of the
Somali people so that they might seize control of their
own destiny and forge a new direction for their
devastated country.
Ultimately, after eight months of intense and
difficult negotiations at Arta, Djibouti, in August 2000,
the Somali State was reborn through the establishment
of the Transitional National Government, the National
Assembly and other institutions. The course has not
been easy, but the Transitional National Government
has persisted and pursued its commitments, gaining the
respect, sympathy and support of the international
community, despite myriad attempts to undermine its
efforts to achieve lasting peace.
The Transitional National Government is a
reality. It represents the will of the people of Somalia,
who have spoken and made their choice. As my
President has repeatedly stated, if we wish to save
Somalia from disintegration and chaos, we must
eschew the standard practice of revolving around a few
all-too-familiar individuals who held the Somali people
hostage for a decade. He suggested, inter alia, that it
was time to move beyond them, to restore power to the
people, and for the Somali people to assume leadership
and responsibility for their own destiny.
We are gratified that the Transitional National
Government is fully committed to bringing about
lasting peace in Somalia through a constructive spirit
of dialogue and tolerance. Building upon the outcome
of the Arta process, the Transitional National
Government has consistently and tirelessly
demonstrated its unwavering commitment to
reconciling with its adversaries without preconditions.
Its efforts to that end have been greatly appreciated by
the Organization of African Unity and by the Security
Council. Both entities have recently condemned those
individuals and faction leaders who remain outside the
Arta peace process and who stubbornly persist in
blocking the peace efforts in Somalia.
In this respect, the efforts of the President of
Kenya, Mr. Daniel Arap Moi, earlier this month to
bring some of these recalcitrants into the Arta process
are to be strongly commended. That is what is expected
of us; it is a moral and political duty we owe to the
people of Somalia. That was the message of the
Security Council’s presidential statement on Somalia
last month:
“[T]he situation in Somalia and the objective of
long-term regional stability can most effectively
be addressed if neighbouring States play a
positive role, including in the process of
rebuilding national institutions in Somalia.”
(S/PRST/2001/30, p. 2)
While the Republic of Djibouti is not in the habit
of challenging anyone on the veracity of information
within their purview, it has nonetheless a moral duty to
issue a caution about the source, motivation, accuracy,
objectivity and reliability of such information,
particularly as it relates to the crucial and sensitive
issue of the existence of terrorist cells in one country or
another. I am convinced that close consultation and
cooperation with all countries in the region on this
important issue will yield realistic and impartial
information in the assessment of any particular
situation. It must be pointed out, however, that haste
and rash, uncorroborated conclusions will only harm
the unity of the international coalition against
terrorism, which we all vigorously support.
At a time when the attention of the international
community is squarely focused on the issue of
terrorism, the brutality and destructive force used
against the Palestinians have increased dramatically.
Israel has created the conditions for chaos and anarchy
to justify its reoccupation and even annexation of
Palestinian territory. The recent incursions represent
the broadest military operations in years in Palestinian-
controlled territory. Each day we drift closer to an
unacceptable conflagration between two parties that are
unequal in power, means, resources and international
influence.
Insisting on a ceasefire without offering anything
in return, Israel is determined to pursue its defiance of
international opinion. Living conditions in the
occupied territories continue to be seriously affected by
the Israeli blockade. Rising unemployment, failing
businesses, falling incomes, restrictions on the
movement of goods and people and the banning of
construction while Jewish settlement activities
continue all combine to inflame an already incendiary
situation. One wonders, therefore, what more the
Israelis want to hear than the imploring words of
President Arafat: “Let us go back to implementing the
accords. Let us go back to saving the peace process
with no conditions and no military pressures.”
30

We call on Israel to relinquish Orient House and
other Palestinian offices in and around Jerusalem. We
also urge it to return to the negotiating table and,
among other things, to implement the proposals
contained in the Mitchell Committee report. Israel must
release the millions of dollars in tax money owed to the
Palestinian Authority in order to alleviate the economic
and financial hardships inflicted upon the Palestinian
people.
In the final analysis, Israel’s security largely
depends on the implementation of the principle of a
viable Palestinian State. We hope that the international
community will also commit itself to restoring dignity
and respect to the Palestinian people. Like all peoples
everywhere, they have a right to live in peace and to
enjoy a decent existence.
In our subregion of the Horn of Africa, there has
been some reduction in hostilities despite lingering
differences and antagonisms. The people in that area of
the world have suffered too long and desire nothing
more than a relaxation of tensions, the free movement
of people and goods, lasting peace, stability,
development and cooperation. It is high time that we
devoted our meagre resources to development and to
improving the living conditions and meeting the needs
of our own people. Let us give our people a break and a
better future.
Djibouti truly believes in regional cooperation,
good-neighbourliness and the opportunities they can
afford for all our people. We are committed to working
hand in hand with our friends in the subregion to
resolve outstanding issues in complete harmony and
trust. As a nation, we are challenged by scant resources
and declining international assistance, which have been
exacerbated by the huge influx of drought-affected
people and economic migrants. Our capital city, in
particular, is overburdened by an influx of people
displaced by drought or political tensions in the region,
thus further straining our limited infrastructure and
social services. We appeal to the international
community to help us overcome these unsustainable
challenges and pressures that have been with us for too
long and are beyond our limited means.








"
56,2001,MHL,"﻿On behalf of the
Government and the people of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands allow me to offer cordial
congratulations to the President on his election as
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session, and to offer the Marshall Islands unreserved
cooperation in our deliberations at this session.
I must also express my sincere gratitude to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, whose outstanding
leadership was instrumental in making the fifty-fifth
session, coined the Millennium Assembly, highly
successful.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands also pays
tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election to a second
term as Secretary-General, as well as on winning the
prestigious Nobel Peace Prize, which is a very well-
deserved and timely recognition of the Organization
and of the Secretary-General’s wisdom and dedication
to the service of mankind.
It is with a heavy heart and deep sorrow that the
Government of President Kessai Note and the people of
the Republic of the Marshall Islands reiterate to the
Government and people of the United States of
America their deepest sympathy and condolences for
the suffering and pain caused by the terrorist attacks of
11 September. Similarly, we wish to convey our
heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the other great
nations that were directly affected by that tragic and
inhuman act. They were not alone in their daily trials
and tribulations; the Republic of the Marshall Islands
was with them. Furthermore, we extend our solidarity
and condolences to the Government and people of the
Dominican Republic, who suffered losses in the recent
crash of American Airlines flight 587.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands condemns
all acts of terrorism. I am pleased to inform the
Assembly of the ratification by the Government of the
Marshall Islands of six conventions and treaties related
to terrorism. They are the Convention on the Physical
Protection of Nuclear Material, the Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against
Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic
Agents, the International Convention for the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, the Convention for
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, the
Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives for
the Purpose of Detection, and the International
Convention against the Taking of Hostages.
The marked worldwide increase in behaviours
abhorrent to human dignity, freedom and basic rights of
innocent people encouraged the early ratification of the
Rome Statute by the Marshall Islands, which calls for
the establishment of an International Criminal Court.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands welcomes an
early establishment of the Court and the
implementation of its mandate.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands remains
fully committed to the principles enshrined in the
31

human rights bill. The Government is currently in the
process of ratifying the following conventions: the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman
or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; the
International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination; the United Nations
International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights; and the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights. We are committed to accede
to them in a timely manner.
Given the unique conditions under which we seek
our livelihood, our Government has been readily
supportive of new scientific breakthroughs and
innovations for the betterment of the world. However,
we feel there are certain scientific initiatives that run
counter to human decency. In this regard, we fully
associate ourselves with the call by the Governments of
Germany and of France for a universal convention
banning human cloning for reproductive purposes. We
believe that such a scientific endeavour would directly
violate the Universal Declaration on the Human
Genome and Human Rights, drawn up by the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization and endorsed by the General Assembly in
resolution 53/152. Article 11 of that Declaration
specifies that
“Practices which are contrary to human dignity,
such as reproductive cloning of human beings,
shall not be permitted.”
As in the past, the Republic of the Marshall
Islands will continue to voice in the strongest terms
possible and in the best form at its disposal, its
concerns and fears over issues relating to climate
change and rising sea levels. The Assembly is aware
that several Pacific island countries are represented in
this Organization. Like other small island countries, the
Republic of the Marshall Islands is plagued by a unique
set of problems. Our coastal zones have become highly
vulnerable to erosion, our groundwater systems are
affected by high levels of saltwater intrusion, and
increasing salinity is having a direct impact on our
subsistence cropping. Such vulnerabilities, together
with prolonged drought, constitute a deadly peril for
our health and survival.
We welcome the successful outcome of the sixth
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
which recently concluded in Marrakesh. The Kyoto
Protocol is the best available solution to address our
environmental concerns. We should be able to look
back in the coming days and commend ourselves for
the mission that is to be accomplished. We owe it to
our children and to our children’s children.
The Millennium Declaration, adopted by heads of
State or Government during the Millennium Assembly,
should serve as our guiding framework and road map
for achieving sustainable development, eradicating
poverty, combating HIV/AIDS, preventing illegal
trafficking in small arms and safeguarding the
environment.
Immediately following the Millennium Assembly,
President Kessai H. Note convened a broad-based
economic and social summit, the outcome of which
was the development of a national planning vision — a
guiding framework for a long-term national
development programme. I commend Member States
for their generous support and assistance for this
initiative.
The Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands is of the view that the United Nations must
move forward proactively in its reform process. We
commend the Secretary-General for his reform
programme. However, much more needs to be done.
We encourage the Fifth Committee and United Nations
funds and programmes to support and cooperate in the
reform process.
The Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands fully supports the expansion of the Security
Council in both the permanent and non-permanent
categories, based on equity, to include developed and
developing countries so as to respond to the realities
and challenges of our contemporary world. We note
that certain issues need to be agreed on. We should
move forward with broad-based agreement and revisit
our differences.
Now that this Organization has 189 Member
States, 14 of them being from the Pacific region, the
reconfiguration of our electoral groupings should be an
additional matter to be placed on the table. It may be a
complex issue, but through our collective efforts and
inspiration, the goal can be achieved, and it should be
considered without further delay.
The exclusion from this body and its related
agencies of the Republic of China on Taiwan is a
major, serious hindrance to the Government of the
32

Republic of China on Taiwan in its pursuit of its
fundamental rights to participate in international
dialogue and regional organizations and activities. The
time has come once again to reconsider the exclusion
of the Republic of China on Taiwan from this
prestigious body. There is so much that the Republic of
China on Taiwan could do, in cooperation with the
United Nations system, in the areas of sustainable
development, technology, health, peace and prosperity.
In conclusion, the Republic of the Marshall
Islands pledges its commitment to the principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
God bless the United Nations.



"
56,2001,PAK,"﻿I would like to
extend to you, Mr. President, my felicitations on your
election. I also wish to congratulate your predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his stewardship of the
millennium session of the General Assembly. Deep
appreciation is also due to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, for his untiring efforts to translate the
vision of the Millennium Declaration into policies and
actions by the world community.
Mr. Secretary-General, please also accept my
heartiest congratulations on the award of the centenary
Nobel Peace Prize conferred upon you and your
Organization, and on your election for a second term to
your prestigious office.
Last year, at the Millennium Summit, all of us
were looking forward to a renaissance in the new
millennium — a renaissance in the hearts and minds of
people, for a better world where peace and justice
would prevail. Unfortunately, today we gather against
the sombre backdrop of the terrorist outrage that the
world witnessed in shock and horror on that fateful day
of 11 September. In seconds, images of fire and death
reached all of us around the globe. Thousands of
innocent lives were lost in minutes. Eighty or more
nations lost some of their brightest and their best.
Pakistan, like the rest of the world, mourned the
colossal loss of innocent lives. The map of the world
changed, and the entire globe descended into a deep
crisis. At a time of such great turmoil, when there is a
need for clear thought and firm action, I come from
Pakistan with a message of determination and resolve
as well as a message of peace for all peoples.
The General Assembly meets this year under the
shadow of a horrendous act of terror perpetrated
against the people of the United States — an act for
which no grievance or cause can ever be a justification,
an act that must be condemned unambiguously and in
the strongest words. This was an attack on humanity
itself and we all must therefore unite to fight this
scourge. Pakistan has followed words with actions.
Now that the world has committed itself to fight
against terrorism, it is time for introspection. In this
dark hour, we owe it to posterity to shed light on some
dangerous and growing trends, misconceptions and
2

misperceptions which, if not countered, may lead the
world into even greater disorder and disharmony.
Muslims in various parts of the world, and the
religion of Islam itself, are being held responsible for
the trials the world is facing. This point of view is
totally misplaced. Just as all religions teach peace and
love for fellow beings, so Islam places upon its
adherents the obligation to do good, to be generous,
merciful, kind and just to all fellow beings. The
Muslim greeting “Assalam alaikum”, meaning “Peace
be with you”, symbolizes the very essence of the
Islamic faith. Islam is a religion of peace, compassion
and tolerance.
Terrorism is not a Christian, Buddhist, Jewish or
Muslim belief. It is to be condemned no matter who the
perpetrator, be it an individual, a group or a state.
We need to ask ourselves what really causes these
extreme acts around the world. To my mind, it is
unresolved political disputes: disputes in Bosnia,
Kosovo, Palestine, Kashmir and other places.
Unfortunately, all these disputes involve Muslims and,
what is more sad, Muslims happen to be the victims in
all of them. This fact tends to give a religious tinge to
these otherwise political disputes. The lack of progress
in resolving them has created in Muslims a sense of
deprivation, hopelessness and powerlessness.
The frustration grows even worse when disputes
like those relating to Kashmir and Palestine, which
have been the subject of Security Council resolutions,
remain unsettled. The question then becomes, are the
people asking for their rights in accordance with
United Nations resolutions to be called terrorists, or are
the countries refusing to implement United Nations
resolutions perpetrators of State terrorism? In Kashmir,
Indian occupation forces have killed over 75,000
Kashmiris, attributing these killings to foreign
terrorists. It is time that India stopped such deceit.
United Nations Security Council resolutions on
Kashmir must be implemented.
Media images of the Palestinian child,
Mohammed Al-Durra, were etched into the hearts and
minds of people all over the world. It is perverse to
regard the rape of Kashmiri women as a punishment
inflicted in the course of war. The images of those
moments when the World Trade Centre towers came
down will remain definitive for all the agony, disbelief
and loss that people suffer from acts of terror all over
the world. All forms of terror must be condemned,
prevented and fought against, but in condemning them
the world must not trample upon the genuine rights,
aspirations and urges of the people who are fighting for
their liberation and are subjected to State terrorism.
To fight the extremist, deprive him of his
motivation. The extremist survives in an environment
where millions suffer injustice and indignity. Deprive
him of his support by giving all the peoples of the
world peace, security, justice and dignity, regardless of
faith, religion or creed.
A just and honourable solution for the people of
Kashmir and an end to the miseries of the people of
Palestine are the major burning issues that have to be
addressed vigorously, boldly, imaginatively and
urgently. We must get to the root causes; cosmetic
solutions will only make matters worse. Consider the
analogy of a tree: terrorists are like so many leaves —
take out some, and there will be plenty more, an
unending growth. Terrorist networks are branches:
prune a few, and there will be others, and further
growth. The only way to do deal with them is to go for
the roots. Eliminate the roots, and there will be no tree.
The roots are the causes, which need to be addressed,
tackled and eliminated, fairly, justly and honourably, so
as to give people back their dignity, self-respect and
honour.
In essence, therefore, to tackle the issue of
terrorism in its entirety, we need to follow a
three-pronged strategy of going for individual
terrorists; moving against terrorist organizations; and
addressing disputes throughout the world in a just
manner.
After the events of 11 September, Pakistan took a
deliberate, principled decision to join the world
coalition in its fight against terrorism. This decision
has catapulted us, once again, into the position of being
a front-line State in the battle against terrorism. While
the people of Pakistan have accepted this new reality,
they still suffer from a sense of betrayal and
abandonment as a result of being left in the lurch in
1989 after the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Then, too, we were a front-line State — and what we
got in return was 3 million refugees, a shattered
economy, drugs and a Kalashnikov culture, to be dealt
with single-handedly and through our own limited
resources. Pakistan only hopes that the mistakes of the
past will not be repeated and that Pakistan’s legitimate
concerns will be addressed. Our economy again faces a
3

crisis from the fallout from the operations in
Afghanistan. We need financial and commercial
support on an urgent basis, and hope that this will be
forthcoming.
After the events of 11 September, and after
Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda became an
international issue, Pakistan tried its utmost, up to the
last moment, to work with the Afghan Government so
as to avert military action in Afghanistan. Regrettably,
we did not meet with success, and the coalition
operation against terrorists in Afghanistan continues,
with no immediate end in sight. Sadly, the civilian
casualties resulting from this action are increasingly
depicted as an open war against the already poor,
suffering and innocent people of Afghanistan. The
world in general, and Pakistan in particular, mourn the
loss of these innocent lives, and sympathize with the
bereaved. It is desirable that the military operation be
as short and as accurately targeted as possible. It is also
essential that a fall-back political strategy be evolved
which could attain the same objectives as those being
sought through military application.
In its entirety, dealing with Afghanistan involves
a three-pronged strategy to address military, political
and humanitarian-cum-rehabilitation issues. It must
remain the effort of the coalition, after achieving its
military objectives, to prevent a vacuum leading to
anarchy, through the immediate application of joint
political and rehabilitation strategies.
In our view, the political set-up in Afghanistan
must be home-grown and not imposed — and I say that
having knowledge of the Afghan psyche. We must
ensure the unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan,
within a broad-based, multi-ethnic dispensation,
representative of the demographic composition of the
country.
The people of Afghanistan have been suffering
the ravages and devastation of conflict for over two
decades. It is the moral obligation of the world
community to support them generously. Assistance to
Afghanistan should be in two forms: first, ongoing
humanitarian assistance; and secondly, post-military
operations, rehabilitation and reconstruction.
To offset the ill-effects of the ongoing military
operation, it is imperative that we launch a more
coordinated and concerted humanitarian relief effort
inside and outside Afghanistan, with more generous
funding. This will go a long way to alleviating the
sufferings of the common Afghan.
It is equally important that we, concurrently,
formulate a post-operation rehabilitation programme
for when peace returns to Afghanistan. This effort
would entail, at the minimum, the restoration of water-
management systems; the revival of agriculture through
land development; the reconstruction of the physical
infrastructure — roads, buildings and utilities; and the
establishment of institutions.
A stable and peaceful Afghanistan is in the vital
interests of the region and, in particular, of Pakistan.
Conditions must be created for the more than 3 million
refugees in Pakistan to return to their country. We
propose the establishment of an “Afghan trust fund”,
under United Nations auspices, for the rehabilitation
and reconstruction effort.
I would now like to focus on the harsh realities in
the developing countries, which have a relationship
with extremism of all kinds. Poverty and deprivation
lead to frustration, making the masses vulnerable to
exploitation by extremist organizations. It is the
collective moral responsibility of the developed world
to address this issue squarely, through substantive
economic uplift, poverty alleviation and social action
programmes in the developing countries. Economic
imbalances have to be removed in order to achieve a
just, equitable and harmonious world order. A major
step in this direction would be to reduce, if not
eliminate, the debt burden, which hangs like a
millstone around the necks of the poor and the
underdeveloped.
The bigger tragedy of the third world is that their
rulers, together with their minions, plunder their
countries’ wealth and are afforded easy access to safe
havens to stash away the loot in the first world.
Restrictions have long been imposed on the laundering
of drug money, and the money supply for terrorists is
being choked off. Why can similar restrictions not be
imposed on the money-laundering of loot?
I appeal, through this forum, to all of the
developed countries to legislate against deposits of ill-
gotten money, to assist in investigating the looters and
to ensure the early return of the plundered wealth to its
countries of origin. In fact, I would not be far off the
mark if I were to state that, with the return of this
looted money, many of the developing countries might
4

be able to pay back their debts and revive their
economies.
Pakistan is deeply conscious of the nuclear
dimension of the security environment of our region,
the danger it poses and the responsibility it places on
nuclear-weapon States, particularly the two nuclear
States in South Asia. We are ready to discuss how
Pakistan and India can create a stable South Asian
security mechanism through the peaceful resolution of
disputes, the preservation of the nuclear and
conventional balance, confidence-building measures
and the non-use of force, as prescribed by the United
Nations Charter. In this context, we are ready to
discuss nuclear and missile restraints, as well as
nuclear risk-reduction measures, with India, in a
structured, comprehensive and integrated dialogue.
Pakistan is fully aware of the responsibilities of
its nuclear status. We have declared a unilateral
moratorium on nuclear testing. Pakistan was not the
first to initiate nuclear tests and will not be the first to
resume them. We are ready to formalize a bilateral
treaty with India for a mutual test ban. We have
strengthened our export controls and have established
multi-layered custodial controls on all our nuclear
assets. Let me assure the Assembly that our strategic
assets are very well guarded and in very safe hands. We
are constantly upgrading our command and control
measures, and we have instituted an elaborate nuclear
command and control mechanism for ironclad custodial
controls to ensure the safety and security of all our
assets. Pakistan is opposed to an arms race in South
Asia, be it nuclear or conventional. We will maintain
deterrence at the minimum level. We want to live in the
region with honour and with dignity.
I would now like to very briefly cover internal
developments in Pakistan. Over the past two years, the
focus has been on economic revival, poverty
alleviation, the improvement of governance in
Pakistan, political restructuring and the introduction of
genuine democracy in the country. We have
successfully put in place a sound democratic structure
that is based on empowerment of the people at the
grassroots level. A revolutionary step has been taken
through the provision of one third of the seats to
women on the district-level governing councils.
I want to put on record at this gathering that
Pakistan is proud of this representation and
empowerment of women, which is a unique feature in
the world. Our resolve to hold elections to the
Provincial and National Assemblies and to the Senate
in October 2002, in accordance with the road map I
announced last August, will remain unchanged in spite
of the prevailing environment in the region.
In conclusion, and in view of the fact that we are
going through a time of enormous trials and
tribulations, I wish to make an appeal — an appeal for
the sake of mankind, for the sake of our future
generations and for the sake of a better world.
Let justice prevail; let no people be wronged; let
suffering be eliminated; let discontent be addressed; let
humanity rise as one nation to eliminate subjugation of
the weak; and let there be peace.


"
56,2001,STP,"﻿Mr. President, allow me to
congratulate you on behalf of the State of Sao Tome
and myself on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session, which
testifies to the international community’s esteem for
and recognition of the Republic of Korea and you
personally. Please accept our wishes for every success
as you carry out your mandate. Let me also express our
thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the
exemplary way he led the work of our last session.
I should also like to pay tribute to His Excellency
Mr. Kofi Annan, our Secretary-General, both on his
resounding re-election and on the well-deserved and
just awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to him and the
6

United Nations, reflecting their major contributions to
the cause of peace and development.
This session is being held at a particularly
important juncture in the history of international
relations, when the entire international community is
mobilizing to confront the devastating phenomenon of
international terrorism, the scope and magnitude of
which were evident in the 11 September attacks on
New York and Washington, D.C., and in Pennsylvania,
which took the lives of thousands of innocent people.
At that time, Sao Tome and Principe expressed its total
indignation at the criminal and monstrous acts
committed against the American people, as well as its
full solidarity with the American authorities and the
families of the victims. We share the opinion that those
responsible for these barbaric acts must be
apprehended and punished, and that terrorist
organizations supporting them must be dismantled by
all necessary means.
We reaffirm our full readiness to cooperate
actively at both the regional and international levels in
the fight against terrorism, which is one of the major
evils threatening world peace and security today. We
hail all initiatives taken to contain the military action,
justly launched against those who sow terror as well as
those who shelter them in their territories, so as to
avoid having innocent victims among the civilian
population. We welcome the efforts of the international
community to adopt a juridical instrument to make the
fight against terrorism more effective in the context of
a global strategy.
No one can doubt that this act of criminal,
unacceptable and unjustified aggression, condemned
throughout the world, requires a new dynamic in the
fight against it, particularly within the United Nations.
We note with satisfaction that important measures have
been taken in that regard, notably by the Security
Council in resolution 1373 (2001), of 28 September.
Yet the manifestation of extreme violence in these
recent attacks alerts us to the need to understand in a
different and comprehensive way the great problems
faced by mankind throughout the world, without losing
sight of the merciless fight that must be waged against
international terrorism in all its manifestations.
Despite the considerable scientific and
technological progress recorded throughout history,
which has permitted high levels of development,
striking imbalances persist in a number of areas with
regard to social and economic development, both
within and among the countries, regions and subregions
of the world. Witness particularly the situation
prevailing in sub-Saharan Africa. A look at the
statistics of economic and social conditions in the
countries of that region is enough to reveal the urgent
need to develop a front that, acting concertedly and
collectively, can fight to eradicate their absolute
poverty.
Faced with this scenario — rich countries on the
one hand and poor countries on the other — one might
wonder whether the political will exists to reverse this
situation, which is dominated by selfishness and the
interests of individuals, groups and States. Only thus
can one explain the lack of cooperation, indifference
and, indeed, the lack of sensitivity shown by the
industries of developed countries in the face of real
scourges that devastate thousands of people, making
the countries of the South even more vulnerable. For
example, I am thinking of the HIV/AIDS pandemic as
well as other epidemics, such as hepatitis B and
malaria.
The efforts of international organizations —
notably the United Nations and its system, as well as
certain non-governmental organizations — to help
mankind cope with this painful situation must be
visible.
Moreover, beyond the economic data reflecting
the growth of poverty in Africa, the situation of our
continent is worsened by the persistence of armed
conflicts, particularly the crises in the Great Lakes
region, the Horn of Africa and Angola, to cite only a
few examples of the fratricidal war that afflicts us.
As to the situation in Angola, we reaffirm our
urgent desire to see an end to the war in that fraternal
country. We condemn the terrorist acts that have
claimed countless lives, particularly among the civilian
population, and we call for a renewed application of
the terms of the Lusaka Protocol for conflict resolution.
In the context of conflict resolution, we welcome
the efforts of the international community to find a
solution to the East Timor question, as well as progress
made in the process of emancipation of the Maubere
people under the aegis of the United Nations. It is our
great hope to see this brotherly people admitted to the
United Nations as a full-fledged Member and to see a
strengthened Community of Portuguese-Speaking
Countries.
7

We note with concern the escalation of violence
in the Middle East. In our view, it is essential that
Israel and the Palestinian Authority resume the
negotiations on the peace process, the only way to find
a just and peaceful solution that takes into account both
the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
and the guarantee of security for the State of Israel.
Unfortunately, Sao Tome and Principe is still on
the list of poor, least advanced or underdeveloped
countries, despite the efforts of its people and the
determination of its leaders to place it on the track of
development. Today, my country is unquestionably a
place of freedom and democracy where fundamental
individual human rights are respected. The recent
presidential elections, held in July this year, which
brought Mr. Fradique de Menezes to the highest office
of the State of Sao Tome, are irrefutable proof of
democratic stability in our country. Nevertheless, the
constraints arising from the inequalities that prevail in
the new international economic order keep us from
attaining a state of well-being and from creating more
dignified living conditions for our people.
During the Millennium Summit last year, the
heads of State and Government adopted in this Hall a
very important text called the United Nations
Millennium Declaration. I take pleasure in citing a
portion of it:
(spoke in French)
“we have a duty therefore to all the world’s
people, especially the most vulnerable and, in
particular, the children of the world, to whom the
future belongs”. (resolution 55/2, para. 2)
(spoke in Portuguese; interpretation from French text
provided by the delegation)
This Declaration takes on particular importance
in the case of our country, where the future and well-
being of children seem badly compromised, bearing in
mind the atmosphere of terror, the horrors of war and
the abuses of exploitation, famine and poverty. We
must act now to protect our children. We must fight by
every available means to ensure full respect for their
fundamental rights. This is why we welcome with
much satisfaction the Second World Conference
against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children,
scheduled for next month, and the world summit on the
future of children, to be held in May 2002.
Sao Tome and Principe considers globalization to
be a phenomenon of interdependence, a unique
opportunity to bring peoples together, not a political
ideal driven by the dominant economic Powers. Thus
we enthusiastically welcome the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development and share the certainty that this
plan — based on our needs and the aspirations of our
people for the future, and designed to find practical
solutions to the economic and social problems
throughout Africa — will be favourably received by
our partners, notably those of the G-7/G-8, for
implementation.
The environment is a fundamental issue for the
survival of mankind, and it must continue to be the
focus of special attention by the United Nations. We
therefore stress the importance of the outcome of the
recent seventh Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
held at Marrakesh. Every effort must be made to create
and disseminate technology that can minimize the
environmental impact of human activities and to
mobilize the resources needed to implement the
policies and strategies adopted in a range of
international forums.
Today more than ever before, it is obvious that
we need to change the working methods of the organs
of the United Nations so that they can better respond to
the demands of the day. As a universal organization,
the United Nations must be open to all States. Here we
are talking about international law, the sovereign
conduct of relations with other States, and active
participation, in a spirit of solidarity, in development
efforts through cooperation and international trade
relationships. That certainly applies to the Republic of
China on Taiwan. We believe in the right to disagree,
especially when disagreement is democratically
expressed by people. We also believe that dialogue is
the only way to ease tension wherever it is most acute.
The United Nations, which has always aimed to
support the development efforts of all countries,
especially the poorest, must play a key role in the quest
for solutions to the major problems facing the world. It
must do so through fostering determination and
adopting appropriate measures to create a fairer, more
human world: a better world.






"
56,2001,CAF,"﻿The delegation of the Central African
Republic would like first of all to fulfil the task
entrusted to it by His Excellency Mr. Ange-Félix
Patassé, President of the Republic and head of State, of
expressing the solidarity of the Central African
Republic with the American people, as well as its
resolute condemnation of the heinous acts committed
against freedom, democracy and peace on 11
September. We will certainly make our contribution to
the process of reflection that the international
community will undertake together throughout this
session to elaborate measures aimed at the eradication
of terrorism.
Before proceeding, I should like warmly to
congratulate Mr. Han on his election to the presidency
of the General Assembly at this session, as well as the
other members of the Bureau. His expertise in
international affairs, together with his wisdom, will
guarantee the success of our work, and the delegation
of the Central African Republic would like to assure
him of its cooperation. My delegation greatly
appreciated the skilful way in which his predecessor
conducted the work of the Millennium Assembly.
We would also like to address, on behalf of the
Central African Republic, our warmest congratulations
to Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election as Secretary-
General. He has been honoured for his commitment to
the cause of the Organization by the award of the
Nobel Peace Prize, which is a tribute both to him and
to the United Nations as a whole. He can continue to
count upon the cooperation of the Central African
Republic in the fulfilment of his extremely difficult
10

mission, in the wake of last year’s adoption by Member
States of the Millennium Declaration, which
establishes a new framework for cooperation between
States.
Indeed, the Millennium Declaration must be
viewed as a strategy within which States should work
so as to be able meet the many challenges facing the
world today, which include poverty, conflict,
intolerance, terrorism, debt, marginalization, endemic
disease and HIV/AIDS. These growing challenges, the
persistence of which leads to global imbalance, can be
dealt with only through multilateral cooperation, above
all in the framework of the United Nations.
Such cooperation must first of all aim to eradicate
the causes of certain frustrating problems in the world,
by, for example, achieving a just and lasting settlement
of the question of the Middle East.
Likewise, my delegation urges the parties
concerned to implement the provisions of the Lusaka
Agreement so that the Democratic Republic of the
Congo can regain its territorial integrity and unity and
establish a lasting peace, which will be of benefit to the
Central African Republic.
Furthermore, States should cooperate in support
of Africa, which is currently burdened by the weight of
numerous challenges. The Millennium Summit rightly
committed the international community to a campaign
for development cooperation so as to make the right to
development, like human rights, a reality for all.
The Central African Republic, which endorsed
the Millennium Declaration, urges the countries of the
North to establish a true partnership with Africa, at
both the public and private level, so as to support the
developmental efforts of the continent. This will
require a degree of political will, since, given the
conflicts that are taking place today between, and often
within, States, our partners sometimes give in to
despair and indifference when confronted with slow
progress, or occasionally allow themselves to be
swayed by emotions incited by certain people who
wish to discourage initiatives by abusively
manipulating ideas that promote genocide and ethnic
cleansing — phenomena that some countries have
recently endured, but that can gain no foothold today in
a country such as the Central African Republic.
We often forget that the deep-seated sources of
such conflicts are the lack of a culture of democracy in
our societies and extreme poverty. That is why our
partners should support our efforts to achieve
democratization and contribute to consolidating the
foundations of our young democracies, above all by
paying priority attention to the economic aspect,
which, unfortunately, is not always the case.
In the case of the Central African Republic, for
example, on 28 May last an attempted coup took place
with the aim of ending the march of democracy in the
country. That was the fourth such attempt in the five
years since 1996. We would like briefly to shed some
light on those events.
At its 4261st meeting, on 23 January 2001, the
Security Council considered the situation in the Central
African Republic. While noting certain shortcomings,
the Council recognized the efforts of the Government
and asked it, along with representatives of all parts of
society in the Central African Republic, to continue
down the path towards the consolidation of democracy
and the preservation of peace. To help in that task, the
mandate of the United Nations Peace-building Support
Office in the Central African Republic (BONUCA) has
been extended because, with the assistance of others, it
is doing remarkable and productive work.
Despite everything, the Central African Republic
is determined to continue resolutely to be a small
haven of relative stability in a region torn apart by war,
as one eminent personality put it recently. The social
and political tension has, indeed, begun to diminish.
Since May 2001, there has been an international
presence.
Contrary to all expectations, the same groups that
have repeatedly subjected the people of the Central
African Republic to acts of terrorism for five years
committed an act whose foreseeable and tragic
consequences are well known. When condemned by
both the national and international community, those
groups rushed to hide behind claims of genocidal
practices in an attempt to justify the unjustifiable, thus
creating ethnic division in various parts of the country.
This recurrence of violent crises raises questions
about justice in our young States, which are trying to
establish the rule of law, but where amnesties are
granted in lieu of justice, allowing impunity to prevail
and thus encouraging recidivism.
Fortunately, the world has spoken out in
condemnation of the most recent coup attempt, and we
11

would like to take this opportunity, from this rostrum,
to thank the United Nations, the European Union, the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the
Community of Sahel Saharan States, as well as
brotherly and friendly countries, which responded
immediately, calling for the re-establishment of
constitutional legality.
Any coup, be it failed or successful, always gives
rise to actions to undermine freedom, human rights, the
rights of society and national rights. The Central
African Republic did not want to play that game. Thus,
a number of appropriate measures have been taken,
including the creation of a joint judicial inquiry
commission; the establishment of contacts among the
various social sectors and with the chancelleries,
organizations and accredited institutions in the Central
African Republic at the governmental and presidential
levels; and diplomatic activity with the countries of the
subregion and the region, which are being pursued.
However, beyond the attempted coup of 28 May,
the entire situation in the Central African Republic
must be assessed as a whole. Just recently, having
refused to present himself to the commission of judicial
inquiry that had been established specifically to
determine the consequences of the attempted coup of
28 May, the former army Chief of Staff organized
resistance that threatened to turn into a rebellion and
almost plunged the country into renewed tragedy. The
rapid reaction of the Organization of African Unity, the
Community of Sahelo-Saharan States and neighbouring
brotherly countries has certainly helped to calm the
situation for the moment.
All these events, sorely trying to men of good
will, have again highlighted the question of the march
of democracy in the Central African Republic. That
march has been made even more difficult by the
nation’s extreme poverty and fragility, which, because
of enormous financial hardships, is unable to cover the
costs of sovereignty, creating a veritable breeding
ground of instability. The attempted coup on 28 May
exacerbated the country’s situation by plunging it into
tragic destitution.
This situation has been clearly grasped by the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), which, on 2
August, reminded its member States, for their
information and possible action, of the decision on the
situation in the Central African Republic, adopted at
the seventy-fourth ordinary session of the Council of
Ministers in Lusaka, which
“Appeals to Member States and the rest of
the international community to provide the
necessary economic and financial assistance for
the reconstruction of the Central African
Republic and in particular calls on the countries
which have promised to provide funds at the
Pledging Conference in favour of the Central
African Republic in New York in May 2000 to
honour their commitments.” (CM/Dec.602
(LXXIV), para. 4)
The Central African Republic thanks the OAU for
that decision. We also wish here to express our
gratitude to the Security Council, which has always
shown great interest in the situation in our country. We
further wish to make special mention here of Gabon,
France and the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, as well as the friends of the Central African
Republic represented here, for their firm involvement
at the side of the Central African Republic. We hope
that they will not despair over these repeated crises
because, in spite of everything, we in the Central
African Republic are truly determined to overcome our
problems.
We therefore hope that the United Nations will
advocate even more energetically the cause of our
country before the various international financial
institutions with a view to securing greater assistance
for us, because the repercussions of the series of events
that began in 1996 will require significant financial
resources to ensure the recovery of the country, the
total collapse of which would have an impact
throughout our subregion, if not beyond.
We are called upon at this session to consider the
manner in which States should implement the
Millennium Declaration through their conduct. It is
only through cooperation and solidarity that we can
achieve this and thus ensure for the world the
fulfilment of the objectives set out in the United
Nations Charter. This cooperation should also allow us
to find the necessary means of meeting the common
challenge of terrorism, which is more apparent today
than ever before.




"
56,2001,NRU,"﻿I bid the Assembly welcome
from the people of Nauru, the pleasant little island of
the Pacific. Let me avail myself of the opportunity to
extend to you, Sir, my Government’s belated
congratulations on your assumption of the presidency
of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
Much of the work of the United Nations since the
despicable attacks on the United States of America on
11 September has been focused on counter-terrorism,
and this is understandable. The Security Council’s
adoption of resolution 1373 (2001), obligating
Members to implement anti-terrorist measures, should
recognize the importance of supporting existing
regional initiatives in the fight against terrorism. To
this end, we welcome the undertakings by the Security
Council Committee on Counter-Terrorism.
The World Bank has predicted that the events of
11 September will exacerbate the already gloomy
global economic outlook. Its ripples will be felt across
all of the world’s regions, particularly in countries
dependent on tourism, remittances and foreign
investment. It is thus critical that the Security Council
allow the competent bodies of the United Nations to
assess the costs of extending, expanding or adding new
peacekeeping operations before their implementation.
Nauru joins the international community in
offering our belated but heartfelt congratulations to
Mr. Kofi Annan and the Organization on being the joint
recipients of this year’s prestigious Nobel Peace Prize.
The former President of the General Assembly,
Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, has to be commended for
capitalizing on the momentum generated by the
Millennium Declaration.
My delegation is pleased to endorse your
proposed agenda, Mr. President, for the fifty-sixth
session. The work of the General Assembly should be
relevant to the tasks at hand, but at the same time it
should address long-standing issues affecting the
efficiency and status of this body. Meaningful
cooperation between Member States must always be
encouraged across the boundaries of religion, ethnicity
2

and culture. The recent World Conference against
Racism is a stark reminder of how the work of the
United Nations will otherwise continue to be
frustrated; but the one significant area where the
United Nations has made little or no progress is on the
question of the reform of the Security Council. We
would therefore support a proposal to move the process
to a higher level and to deal with the complex issues in
a step-by-step fashion.
The last meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum
leaders was held in my country a few months ago. The
communiqué of that meeting has been circulated as a
document of the United Nations. In that communiqué
the Forum leaders sought to formalize cooperation
arrangements between the United Nations and the
Pacific Islands Forum. I would like to take this
opportunity to kindly request your support of the
relevant draft resolution.
The issues of climate change and sea-level rise
continue to be of major concern to my country, and we
have repeatedly voiced our deep concern about the
adverse impact of human-induced climate change,
especially on the low-lying atolls around the Pacific.
We have stressed the importance of efforts to build
appropriate human and institutional capacity.
The Kyoto Protocol represents a significant step
forward on the path to taking action to combat climate
change, but unless significant action is taken on a
practical compliance regime, there is little prospect of
any outcome being enforceable.
Nauru therefore looks forward to participating
with the rest of the world in Johannesburg next year to
review the progress made since Rio, and it is our
fervent hope that the Kyoto Protocol will have come
into force by then.
There is a special urgency for Nauru. Economic
growth in our small country has been negative for more
than a decade, and, as reflected in recent revisions of
our classification by the United Nations and the United
Nations Development Programme, our per capita
income has fallen by almost 80 per cent since the
1980s. We look to the international community, the
United Nations and its various agencies to assist us
through these difficult times and to help secure a safe
future for our children.
Our region, the world’s very first nuclear-free
zone, has a long history of supporting disarmament and
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, born of the
region’s harsh experience with nuclear testing by
colonial Powers. The Pacific Islands Forum leaders
have again expressed their desire for the entry into
force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
Nauru will be depositing its instrument of ratification
today, and I call on other States to follow suit.
The trans-shipment of radioactive material and
MOX fuel, through our exclusive economic zones is a
continuing concern, but we are committed to pursuing
our concerns constructively and vigorously at the
appropriate political level.
Nauru’s commitment to the international effort to
combat money-laundering is unwavering. Our
Parliament passed anti-money-laundering legislation in
August of this year to correct the deficiencies in our
regulatory and administrative arrangements. However,
Nauru is disappointed not to have graduated from the
list of special non-cooperating countries despite the
fact that the legislation was drafted in close
collaboration with Financial Action Task Force on
Money Laundering (FATF) regional representatives.
We will nonetheless continue to work on satisfying the
key players in FATF on this issue, and we look forward
to working with our regional partners under the Pacific
regional action plan being developed.
Nauru, along with 20 other Member States, again
supported the inclusion of a resolution on the
admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan on the
agenda of the fifty-sixth session. While the attempt
failed, Nauru will not be discouraged from continuing
its efforts to correct this anomaly. We on Nauru
wholeheartedly believe that the Republic of China on
Taiwan has a part to play in this Organization, and its
people should not be denied a voice in this world body.
We note with pleasure the recent admission of the
Republic of China on Taiwan to the World Trade
Organization.
Finally, I wish to end my statement by revisiting
the issue of security and terrorism. It is indeed sad that
as we meet here today, there is a war going on in the
world - a war against terrorism. Prior to the horrific 11
September attacks on the United States of America, my
Government, at the request of the Government of
Australia, agreed to the use of Nauru as a refugee-
processing centre. We made this decision on
humanitarian grounds. As a consequence, we now have
on Nauru nearly 800 asylum seekers from Afghanistan,
3

Iraq and Palestine — 10 per cent of the whole
population of Nauru — along with migration personnel
from the United Nations, the International Organization
for Migration and Australia. The asylum seekers are
now being processed.
I have taken it upon myself to personally visit the
camps from time to time and to mingle with these
unfortunate people, and on several occasions have sat
down and broken bread with them. I found that they are
like you and me. They are brave human beings seeking
a better life for themselves and their children and
escape from the oppression back home.
The resources of the United Nations need to be
augmented to cope with this humanitarian tragedy, and
the international community needs to urgently tackle
the problem in a coordinated manner, not only in terms
of providing assistance and refuge where possible,
but also in terms of addressing the sources and causes
of refugees, people- smuggling and terrorism.
Understanding and responding will not necessarily
solve the problem, but it will make it easier for
Governments to share in the continuing international
effort that will be needed.
Finally, may I say that the good old days, before
11 September, are gone forever, and I shed a tear. The
sad part is that we inherited a world that was good
from our forefathers. Today, I ask, do we leave
tomorrow a better world for our children and our
children’s children? That I ask. Mr. President, we look
to you for leadership on these vital issues.
Thank you. May God bless those in sorrow. May
God bless the United States of America. And may God
bless the United Nations.




"
56,2001,BEN,"﻿I would first
of all like to express my outrage at the unacceptable
conditions that terrorism has imposed on us at the fifty-
sixth session of the General Assembly of our
Organization. New York has traditionally been a
welcoming and cosmopolitan city. But now, during the
Assembly’s fifty-sixth session, it and our Organization
have been forced to take on the appearance of a
besieged fortress.
No one knows what the terrorists have planned,
nor who their next victims will be. We are all on the
same side in the face of their diabolical enterprise —
on the side of this battered city; on the side of the
American people and their Government; and on the
side of all the innocent victims brought down so
cruelly and coldly in Pennsylvania, Washington and
New York on that tragic day of 11 September 2001. We
reiterate our profound condolences and sympathy to all
the bereaved families and to their countries and
Governments. At the same time, we reaffirm our
unreserved condemnation of terrorism. Terrorism
violates the principles of all religions. It blemishes all
the causes on whose behalf it claims to act, even the
most just among them. It is for that reason that it must
be combated by all of us without reservation.
The worldwide awakening aroused by the tragic
events of 11 September 2001 must cause us all — great
and small, rich or poor — to join in an extraordinary
effort to fight those who have decided to sacrifice us
without having ever consulted us about either their
objectives or war tactics. But it should also be said that
as wholly repugnant as terrorist practices are, they
cannot be eradicated definitively unless the fertile soil
that feeds the situations that serve as their pretexts is
removed. The strict respect for human rights and the
rights of peoples that are so rightly enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nations should today guide our
political practices more than ever before. It is urgent
for the United Nations to take its proper place in
international relations and for it to play the role
incumbent upon it. In that regard, the reform of the
Security Council is an urgent and imperative necessity.
Poverty, injustice, exclusion and marginalization
always result in creating total despair, thereby causing
extremism to flourish. And we know how easily
extremists sacrifice their own lives and those of others.
It is the duty of all of us, and particularly of the most
powerful among us, to provide the necessary support to
eradicate poverty, marginalization, exclusion and
injustice, and to bear that in mind at all times in the
just, legitimate and resolute struggle against all forms
of terrorism.
The current tragic events that I have just recalled
heighten our concerns and give greater weight to the
responsibilities of the President of the General
Assembly. But his personal talents and experience in
world affairs bolster our conviction that he will
successfully steer the ship of our Organization into port
in these particularly difficult circumstances. For some
years now, his country and mine have enjoyed friendly
and fruitful relations. He can count on the cooperation
and support of the delegation of Benin in the execution
of his noble mission.
I would also like to pay well-deserved tribute to
Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, who guided the United
Nations into the new millennium with great spirit. He
presided over the Millennium Assembly with
competence and discipline, and we extend to him our
congratulations and gratitude.
My congratulations go also to my brother,
Mr. Kofi Annan, on his well-deserved re-election to the
post of Secretary-General of the United Nations and on
the Nobel Peace Prize for 2001, awarded to him and
the Organization he leads with such competence and
dedication. The United Nations has gained a great deal
of credibility thanks in particular to the efforts of
Mr. Kofi Annan and his team in the Secretariat. Never
has there been a more well-deserved prize, and we take
pride in it. Indeed, it is all of Africa that is honoured.
On behalf of the Benin delegation and myself, I would
like to repeat our warm congratulations and
encouragement.
Let me take this opportunity to address the
international community and each Member of the
Assembly to convey the thanks of my country for their
massive participation at the Fourth International
Conference of New or Restored Democracies, held in
Cotonou from 4 to 6 December 2000. Indeed, the
Cotonou Conference saw record attendance, with 106
States, 20 international organizations and 51 non-
governmental organizations represented, not to mention
academics and other researchers interested in
discovering Benin’s experience of democracy. Benin
was honoured by the effective participation of three
20

heads of State. The Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the Administrator of the United Nations
Development Programme made a point of attending
personally in Cotonou. We welcome this gracious and
generous gesture on their part, and express our
gratitude to all bilateral and multilateral partners, those
from the new or restored democracies as well as those
from the older democracies who contributed to
financing this Conference.
To judge by its title, “Peace, Security, Democracy
and Development”, the Cotonou Conference was an
important stage in the progress of our century towards
a consolidation and expansion of democracy. It marked
a remarkable advance by its future-oriented approach
and the importance of the document that crowned its
work, entitled “Cotonou Declaration”. This Declaration
lays out brave and bold measures designed to build
democracy and allow to it survive in peace, security
and respect for diverse cultures. There can be no
democracy unless it is adapted to the soil in which it is
planted, even if the values of democracy are universal.
The Cotonou Conference was also an opportunity
to appreciate how genuine the march towards
democracy in Africa is. All peoples want liberty, but
the institutional and financial capacity to establish it is
weak in many cases, particularly in developing
countries. That is why my country hopes for more
substantial assistance for the strengthening of the
institutional capacities of our countries, because
democracy can function only if the leaders and their
peoples feel they are equal stakeholders. It is also
essential that within the United Nations system, the
structure recommended by the Cotonou Conference,
while following up the International Conference for
New or Restored Democracies, be established with a
view to increasing coordination among the different
initiatives and activities undertaken or contemplated by
the agencies, programmes and various institutions of
the United Nations system.
Indeed, the Fourth International Conference of
New or Restored Democracies strove to highlight the
link that exists between democracy and development.
The Conference clearly indicated that if democracy is a
force for stability, poverty is a major factor for
destabilization and a source of conflicts and war. The
decisions of the Fourth International Conference of
New or Restored Democracies should not be allowed to
remain dead letters. We must organize cooperation and
solidarity among all the democracies of the world.
In the course of the Millennium Summit, which
took place in this very Hall from 6 to 8 September
2000, major decisions were taken. Among them, pride
of place belonged to those relating to questions of
development, the elimination of poverty and the
particular needs of the least advanced countries. The
Millennium Declaration provides, in paragraph 15 of
chapter III:
“We also undertake to address the special
needs of the least developed countries. In this
context, we welcome the Third United Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries to
be held in May 2001 and will endeavour to ensure
its success.” (resolution 55/2, para. 15)
That Conference was held in Brussels from 14 to
20 May 2001 and produced a Programme of Action
that was the fruit of very arduous negotiation.
However, questions remain. Will the poor countries
someday know prosperity? Will they someday be able
to satisfy their basic needs? How will they finance their
development? Public development assistance is in
decline. Investment in poor countries remains weak,
and the burden of debt is becoming heavier. What is to
be done?
With regard to the question of debt, we think
particularly bold solutions are required. For the
creditor countries, it must be recognized these
solutions are neither simple nor easy. Some of these
countries have already adopted exemplary and bold
measures; others must follow suit. At stake are their
own interests: at stake is the interest of world peace.
This demand represents to us the symbol of
solidarity and shared responsibility. That is why the
Benin delegation recommends the urgent establishment
of an effective and highly visible follow-up mechanism
of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries.
In the context of the search for peace and the
promotion of international cooperation, many
disarmament organizations and other related bodies
were created to reaffirm that questions of peace and
security and questions of development were
interdependent and inseparable. The creation of the
Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic
meets this need. Its goal is to protect the coastal States
of the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean from the
dangers of nuclear weapons and to create there a zone
21

of peace and strengthening of cooperation for
development.
Since the third ministerial meeting, held in
Brasilia, my country had offered to host the sixth
meeting, scheduled for the year 2000, but because of
the organization of the Fourth International Conference
of New or Restored Democracies, this meeting could
not take place. My country is looking forward to the
early meeting of this sixth meeting. That is why I
would like to announce here Benin’s offer to organize
the sixth ministerial meeting of the States of the Zone
of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic in the
second half of 2003.
A particularly important instrument of South-
South cooperation, the Zone of Peace and Cooperation
of the South Atlantic should lay the foundations in
Cotonou for its effective and regular functioning within
the new context of international relations. All of you
here are welcome to Benin, a marketplace and meeting
place, a land of democracy and peace.
It is more urgent than ever to establish such peace
in the Middle East by recognizing as a matter of
urgency on the part of us all the imperative necessity of
the Palestinian State — side by side, of course, with
the State of Israel — in peace with all its neighbours
within secure and recognized frontiers. This is the
same peace that Angola and all Africa long for.
We must ban all forms of the illicit traffic in
petroleum, diamonds and weapons. These types of
illegal traffic cause and sustain wars, and the
traffickers are genuine terrorists.
From 31 August to 8 September 2001, the
Republic of South Africa hosted in Durban the World
Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance. That great
international forum, held under the auspices of the
United Nations, brought to light the desire for
rehabilitation, justice and fulfilment of the obligations
of memory and acknowledgement, which humanity’s
recent history has left in the subconscious of certain
peoples. The difficult debates on the thorny questions
raised during the Conference reflect the extent of the
difficulties in this undertaking that we all fervently
called for.
A collective spirit of openness, the impressive
abilities of the host country, the Republic of South
Africa, and particularly the receptiveness and ability of
my sister, Ms. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, enabled us to
reach agreement on two encouraging documents: the
final Programme of Action and the final Declaration. In
our view, these documents represent the international
community’s renewed commitment to fighting and
eradicating the seeds of racism and racial
discrimination. The foundation has been laid. Now,
action must follow to make the two Durban documents
a reality of everyday life. This does not mean
reopening old wounds; rather, we must all now attend
to healing the wounds of the past.
The tragic events whose effects we are still living
through obliged us to postpone the General Assembly’s
special session in follow-up to the World Summit for
Children. My country hopes that a new date can be
decided on during this session so that we can assess the
situation of children in the world 10 years after the
World Summit, because much remains to be done to
improve the lot of children.
Allow me to recall that Benin, having ratified on
3 August 1990 the United Nations Convention on the
Rights of the Child, is among the first 22 States of the
world consenting to be legally bound by this
instrument. Benin has also ratified the African Charter
on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. Articles 12, 13
and 26 of Benin’s Constitution guarantee the right to
education and the protection of families, mothers and
children. Benin’s intentions in this area are also
apparent in the creation of a Ministry of the Family,
Social Protection and Solidarity, which will be devoted
essentially to the implementation of a cohesive and
aggressive policy to protect the family, particularly
children.
Encouraging results have been achieved at the
national level, but much remains to be done. We are
doing admirable work in this area in partnership with
the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations
Development Programme and several estimable non-
governmental organizations, such as Terre des
Hommes, and several other partners of good will.
Those who know Benin can testify to this.
These collaborative efforts have not stopped
certain misinformed or ill-intentioned circles in search
of scandals from using the Etireno affair to deceive
people into believing that the enslavement and selling
22

of children take place in Benin. But neither malicious
intentions nor misinformation nor this sort of
intellectual terrorism will prevent us from making
progress in terms of democracy, the protection of
women and the protection of children from the abuse
they still suffer in all the countries of the world,
particularly in poor, underdeveloped countries.
The Millennium Declaration gave special
attention to Africa under the heading “Meeting the
special needs of Africa”. One year later, the countries
of Africa are still waiting for action to begin to be
taken on those promises. However, Africans are no
longer willing to wait and have taken their fate into
their own hands by creating the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development. The partnership is a
consequence of the newly restored confidence of
Africans in their own abilities. It is aimed at placing
the historic initiative in the hands of Africans
themselves, without in any way renouncing
international cooperation. An important step has thus
been taken with this new African joint initiative.
Africans finally have hope that their continent
will cease to be the continent of disease, poverty,
misery and bloody conflicts and that a real partnership
can be created between us and the rest of the world. It
is our wish that this hope will become reality.











"
56,2001,VCT,"﻿Mr. President, I bring you greetings from the small and
beautiful country of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
Please accept our congratulations on your election as
President of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. You are assured of my country’s full support
for a successful session. We would also like to offer
our heartfelt congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi
Annan on his election to a second term, and to the
United Nations Organization and the Secretary-General
for the prestigious Nobel Peace Prize received in
honour of their efforts to ensure a better and more
peaceful world. It is impossible to think of more
deserving recipients of this award as this coalition of
nations and our beloved Secretary-General strive to
ensure that the Organization fulfils its mandate
according to the Charter.
I commend the President of the United States of
America for the statesmanship and resolve with which
he continues to deal with the difficulties at hand. I also
salute the civic leaders of this great city of New York
for the institutional leadership during this problematic
time. The city has been visited by tragedy once again
this week. On behalf of the Government and people of
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, I offer sincere
condolences to all those touched by this latest disaster,
not least our neighbours and friends in the Dominican
Republic.
Our Government stands firm with the
international community on Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001) against terrorism. We are
working closely with the Governments of the region,
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Latin
America and the United States in an effort to fight the
scourge of terrorism. Our Government has tightened
security and implemented measures intended to close
any possible avenue that criminals and terrorists may
exploit. We will do whatever is necessary to ensure that
barbarism is defeated. Compliance with resolution
1373 (2001) is difficult and expensive for small States
with limited means and technical expertise. But we will
comply.
The international community has mustered an
impressive effort to fight the plague of terrorism. In
this midst of this, however, we must not lose sight of
the fact that terrorism will not be eradicated by one
victory in one war. It behooves us as world leaders to
look deeper into the causes of violence and terror. It is
the firm belief of my Government that marginalization
of the poor and underprivileged creates a hotbed for
extremism and lawlessness.
We in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the
wider Caribbean have triumphed over the evils of
slavery and colonialism to emerge with a truly noble
civilization. We are a people made up of races from the
four corners of the earth who have melded into one
beautiful whole. We are democratic in our governance
and tolerant in our attitudes. We are a hard-working,
industrious people. We are proud. It is not in our nature
to seek alms from the rich. But, Mr. President, it is
self-evident that an economy such as ours, which is
almost totally dependent on agriculture and tourism,
needs help if we are to survive and prosper.
The influence of the multinational Chiquita and
Dole banana companies has been working for years to
destroy the industry of our banana farmers. The World
Trade Organization (WTO), of which we are a member,
seems bent on widening the gulf between rich and poor.
We are not optimistic about the outcome of this week’s
economic Ministerial Meeting in Doha. A farmer
working one or two acres of mountain land and eking
out a living cannot compete with the giants who control
thousands of acres in the Central American countries.
Mr. President, if you take away that which feeds
us, you must offer something in return. That is why the
upcoming conference in Mexico on financing for
development is of seminal importance to the small and
developing countries of this world. It is time for the
economic giants of the world to stop paying lip service
to the idea of financing for development and to put into
practice real and workable means for the poor,
underprivileged and vulnerable nations to join the
mainstream. We need the commercial barriers erected
by those intent on maintaining their hegemony to be
removed. We adhere to the adage “Trade, not Aid”. But
this is not yet a realistic option and, in the present
climate, will not be for the foreseeable future. We hate
asking for charity. We merely ask that promises be kept
and commitments adhered to. As a small island
developing State, we need relief from the burden of our
foreign debts, high interest rates and other unfair
international trade constraints. We need the Bretton
Woods institutions to perform their function in a
democratic and just manner.
HIV/AIDS remains rampant worldwide. The
recent grave disaster in the United States of America
has pushed other burning issues of the day off the
13

world agenda, but people have not stopped dying of
AIDS. The 26 million who have been forecast to
succumb to the scourge in the next 10 years will still
succumb. In the same way that the United States and
the European Union were able to persuade drug
companies to produce drugs to combat anthrax at a
fraction of their normal cost, the same drug companies
should be persuaded to produce affordable treatment
for this plague, which is causing a national security
threat to many poor countries.
The state of affairs of HIV/AIDS has reached
circumstances of extreme urgency in our country. The
Caribbean is now only second to sub-Saharan Africa in
having the fastest rise in the incidents of HIV/AIDS.
We are not equipped to handle this crisis. We are not
able to afford the drugs to treat our people. Therefore,
our people are dying — dying in their hundreds and
thousands. This world crisis, unlike terrorism, is one of
which we know exactly what is required. Do we have
the will to provide the necessary means in order to
resolve this problem? The special session of the
General Assembly last June on HIV/AIDS ended with a
global commitment to combat this disease. Are we
living up to our commitment?
Prior to 11 September, our Government
implemented sound fiscal policies that resulted in
positive economic growth for our country. However,
after that infamous day, the economic outlook turned
extremely bleak. Our burgeoning tourist industry has
suffered tremendously, with employment taking an
especially heavy blow. Hotel occupancy dropped to a
15-year low. There seems to be no end to the ripple
effects on the industry. Just as people were beginning
to fly again, we had the tragedy in Queens on Monday.
This plunges us deeper into economic gloom and the
real and frightening possibility of recession looms ever
closer.
Following the admission of Tuvalu to the United
Nations last year, we were very close to realizing the
principle of universality set forth in the Charter of the
United Nations. Now, only one remaining country
awaits admission to the United Nations. That country,
as we all know, is the Republic of China on Taiwan.
The Republic of China’s impressive record of
economic and political development is one of the most
persuasive reasons to eliminate the United Nations sole
exception to universality. Fifty years ago, Taiwan was a
poor and underdeveloped society. Fifty years later, the
Republic of China on Taiwan has become an affluent
and prosperous country, with a per capita gross national
product of around $14,000, annual trade of over $300
billion and a gross national product of $320 billion.
Although the Republic of China is only the one
hundred thirty-eighth largest country in the world in
terms of lands and the forty-sixth largest in terms of
population, it is today the world’s seventeenth largest
economy, the fifteenth largest trading nation, the eighth
largest investor, the fourth largest holder of foreign
exchange and the third largest exporter of information
technology products.
Under our principle of universality, we cannot
continue to exclude a country with such an impressive
record of achievements. The time has come to open our
doors to the Republic of China on Taiwan.
The situation in Afghanistan calls for immediate
action on the part of the United Nations to fill the
power vacuum left by the departure of the ruling
Taliban from the capital, Kabul. We must make sure
that the new administration is representative of all
factions and we must further ensure that the suffering
and starving people receive immediate humanitarian
aid to ensure their survival through the coming winter
months.
Finally, I must reiterate that we are encouraged
by the efforts undertaken by the United Nations to
work towards a society that ensures security and human
dignity for all in the future. The future looks good if
we all work together for the betterment of mankind. I
assure the Assembly that my Prime Minister, Mr. Ralph
Gonsalves, and the Government and people of Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines are fully committed to
supporting the United Nations in these endeavours, and
may God direct all of us on this path.




"
56,2001,BHS,"﻿The President has been
elected to chair at what is undoubtedly one of the most
challenging sessions of the General Assembly in recent
times. My delegation congratulates him on his election.
We pledge our full support to him and express our
confidence that under his leadership the work of the
Assembly will have a positive impact on our collective
efforts to meet the many challenges facing our world.
My delegation would also like to take this
opportunity to commend his predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri of Finland, for his leadership as President of
the fifty-fifth session, the Millennium Assembly.
We are in times of great tragedy but also of
laudable triumphs. The Secretary-General and the
United Nations have rendered outstanding and
inspiring service to the world’s peoples. Mr. Secretary-
General, we celebrate with you and this Organization
the well-deserved Nobel Peace Prize awarded to you,
even as we express our appreciation for the exemplary
leadership that you continue to provide to the United
Nations.
My delegation also wishes to take this
opportunity to express its sincere sympathy to the
Governments of the United States and the Dominican
Republic and to the families of those who lost their
lives in the crash of a United States commercial aircraft
in New York yesterday.
While recognizing the many challenges the global
community will face in the twenty-first century, leaders
at last year’s Millennium Assembly nonetheless were
optimistic that peace and prosperity would be
important hallmarks of the new century. Their hopes
have been severely undermined by the indefensible acts
of terrorism perpetrated in the United States on 11
September 2001. The horrific scenes of death and
destruction in New York, Washington, D.C., and
Pennsylvania, so indelibly etched in our minds, have
no doubt changed the world forever. The Government
and the people of the Bahamas mourned with countries
all over the world, including our sister Caribbean
countries that lost loved ones, and expressed our
sadness at the senseless loss of life and wanton
destruction of property.
Even as events in Afghanistan unfold, the United
Nations, and indeed the world, now face a dilemma:
how to confront the grave challenge which
international terrorism has defiantly issued to the world
and at the same time meet the Charter obligations to
30

promote human rights and social progress and better
standards of life in larger freedom. We must be
visionary and creative in ensuring that the resources
and energies of the United Nations and of the
international community are used to implement a
balanced agenda that will deal effectively and
resolutely with terrorists and terrorism and that will
also continue to have a positive impact on human
rights, economic and social development and other
common objectives.
The international community has spoken with one
voice in condemning international terrorism as a major
destabilizing force in the world. The acts of 11
September 2001 fundamentally shifted security
concerns regarding terrorists and terrorism to the
workplace, streets and homes of innocent people,
creating anxiety, insecurity and uncertainty worldwide.
Significantly, the terrorist acts have had serious and
damaging consequences on a rapidly globalizing world
economy. The economies of both industrialized and
developing countries have been severely disrupted,
with grave implications for future economic and
financial stability. The economic outlook, particularly
for many developing countries, is indeed grim. The
small economies of the countries in the Caribbean have
experienced massive disruption because of their
vulnerability to external shocks and heavy dependence
on tourism, especially from the North American
market. There has been significant loss of employment
in the tourism, financial services and related sectors,
even as government revenues have fallen and foreign
reserves are threatened.
The countries of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) have moved decisively to assess the
implications of the terrorist attacks on its member
States. As Chair of the Conference of Heads of
Government of CARICOM, the Bahamas was host to a
special emergency meeting of the Conference, held on
11 and 12 October 2001, which adopted the Nassau
Declaration on International Terrorism. That
Declaration sets out the action that Governments would
take to mitigate the impact on the region’s tourism,
aviation, financial services and agricultural sectors,
which are the major contributors to the gross national
product, foreign exchange earnings and employment in
the countries of our region.
CARICOM heads of Government also
unequivocally condemned terrorism in all its forms and
reaffirmed their commitment to work with the
international community in the multifaceted fight
against terrorism, in accordance with international law
and conventions. It is therefore our hope that the
international community will support the countries of
CARICOM during this difficult and challenging period.
We in the Bahamas have taken our obligation to
cooperate in the fight against terrorism very seriously.
We have complied with Security Council resolutions,
including resolution 1333 (2000) which calls for the
freezing of funds and other financial assets of Osama
bin Laden, the Al Qaeda organization and individuals
associated with it. The International Obligations,
Economic and Ancillary Measures Order 2001, enacted
in our Parliament in September this year, prohibits any
person dealing with any property and any financial
institution licensed in the Bahamas from transacting
business with Osama bin Laden, Al Qaeda or any
individuals or entities associated with them, who, for
these purposes, may be designated from time to time.
We have been able to take such timely action because
of a comprehensive legislative regime enacted in
December 2000 which put in place an effective
regulatory regime to ensure that the Bahamas financial
services sector is not abused by criminals for money-
laundering or any other financial crimes. It was the
enactment of that legislation that resulted in the
Financial Action Task Force’s removal of the Bahamas,
in June of this year, from its list of non-cooperative
jurisdictions in the fight against money-laundering. As
part of its overall review of the international regime for
action against terrorists and terrorism, in October this
year my Government signed the United Nations
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism. We are following very closely the
discussions on a comprehensive convention against
terrorism, in order to determine what further action the
Government will need to take in this area. We hope that
a comprehensive, practical and implementable
instrument will be adopted that will take into account
the existing anti-terrorism regime. In this we see a
clearly delineated role for the United Nations, and
particularly the Security Council, which is well placed
to articulate a coherent policy for global cooperation in
the fight against international terrorism.
Meeting our obligations, however, has not been
without sacrifice. The Bahamas, like many other
Caribbean countries, has been obliged to divert scarce
resources from other critical development objectives to
initiate the sweeping security changes required at our
31

airports and seaports and otherwise to mitigate the
impact of the 11 September events.
For the Government and people of the Bahamas,
the ravages of hurricane Michelle have further
compounded the significant economic setbacks caused
by the 11 September events in the United States. Just
last week, that hurricane made a direct hit on our
archipelagic State, causing extensive damage to
infrastructure, agriculture and vegetation in some of
our major islands. The Government is still determining
the extent of the damage but has already begun the
essential period of reconstruction.
Globalization and trade liberalization are, and
must remain, central issues on the world’s agenda.
Generally, globalization has presented significant
opportunities and has had a positive impact on many
countries. However, for others, particularly in the
developing world, the freer flow of capital, technology,
finance, goods and services across national
boundaries — which is the essence of globalization —
has not met the stated objectives of improving overall
economic prosperity, reducing poverty and closing the
technological gap. On the contrary, the social costs of
globalization — poverty, inequality and
unemployment — remain serious challenges for many
of the countries of the developing world. These
challenges are further compounded by factors including
an onerous debt burden, a limited or inadequate export
infrastructure to effectively participate in the global
trading system, and an inability to access the markets
of the developed world. My Government, nevertheless,
is cognizant that the international trading regime of the
World Trade Organization (WTO) provides a
significant framework within which countries may
benefit from globalization and trade liberalization, and
work towards appropriately addressing the costs and
risks associated with the global trading system. In July
this year, the Bahamas submitted its application for
accession to the WTO, for WTO membership is a
priority for my Government and we hope that our
application will receive the requisite support.
We are in a period, leading up to late 2002,
during which the United Nations is defining its
economic and social development agenda with greater
precision, through a series of assessments of
international action in specific areas. The Bahamas was
pleased to have participated in the Organization’s
review of its work and setting of its agenda for further
action in the areas of racism, racial discrimination and
human settlements and the illicit trade in small arms
and light weapons. My Government believes that every
effort should be made to consolidate those areas in
which progress was made at the World Conference
against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia
and Related Intolerance that took place in Durban,
South Africa, from 31 August to 8 September this year.
Global objectives in respect of human settlements
received considerable impetus from the special session
on human settlements that took place in New York in
June 2001. The Declaration on Cities and Other Human
Settlements in the New Millennium, adopted by the
Conference, should prove invaluable in addressing
chronic problems of inadequate shelter.
The United Nations Conference on the Illicit
Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its
Aspects addressed a problem that for the small
countries of the Caribbean is a particularly serious one.
We wished the Conference could have been more
forthright in its adoption of measures to better address
these critical issues but readily accept the Programme
of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit
Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its
Aspects as an essential first step. Decisions taken at
these and other United Nations meetings are indeed
decisions of the Organization that the Bahamas hopes
will be implemented as such by all Member States.
Few countries in the world, if any, have been
spared the vagaries of HIV/AIDS. The statistics are
compelling — more than 30 million people affected.
With respect to the developing world they are even
more compelling — more than 95 per cent of those
affected live in the developing world. The Caribbean
region has not been spared, but we are taking decisive
action. Our Pan-Caribbean Partnership launched in
February this year has the full support and commitment
of heads of Government for effective action against
HIV/AIDS in the wider Caribbean region. The
Government of the Bahamas in this regard welcomes
the contribution of the Government of Canada to the
Caribbean HIV/AIDS programme. The special session
on HIV/AIDS held in New York in June 2001 gave
heads of State and Government the opportunity to set
an agenda for slowing and reversing the destructive
impact of HIV/AIDS throughout the world. It is an
agenda that must be implemented to halt and reverse
this tragedy that is devastating populations and
32

threatening to reverse the development gains made in
many developing countries. The developing world will,
and must, look for help and support to those having the
technology, research capacity and resources by which
they themselves have been able to control the spread of
this deadly disease.
The year 2002 will also be an active one, both for
United Nations benchmark assessments and
readjustment of priorities and for addressing significant
issues on the international agenda. The International
Conference on Financing for Development will be
convened in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002. As
plans develop, we hope that all Members of the United
Nations will come to appreciate the need to ensure that
the Conference provides the framework within which
commitments can be made so that technical assistance
can be provided to poor countries for basic
infrastructural development, the standards of people
worldwide who live in endemic poverty can be raised,
developing countries can be assisted to attract foreign
direct investment, and information technology can be
more freely transferred to developing countries. My
Government, for its part, is of the view that small,
developing, middle-income countries such as the
Bahamas, because of their economic and ecological
vulnerabilities, should not be excluded from
development financing. It is also the view of my
Government that the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, to be convened in South Africa in
September 2002, should be complementary to
undertakings made at the International Conference on
Financing for Development. Ten years after the Rio
Summit of 1992, the ever-increasing fury of natural
disasters, climate change and sea-level rise, and the
depletion of biological resources and overall
environmental degradation, are but some of the issues
begging reassessment that must be part of the blueprint
for determined action emanating from South Africa.
Likewise, the Bahamas hopes that the Second World
Assembly on Ageing, to be held in Madrid, Spain, in
2002, and the special session of the United Nations
General Assembly on children, postponed to 2002,
should assess progress but, more importantly, must
emphasize action that will provide guidance for
national, regional and international policy and planning
in their respective areas.
The initiatives the United Nations will take up in
2002 to review and assess progress in a significant
number of areas should bring clearly into focus the
actions that must be taken by Member States and by the
Organization to accomplish agreed economic and
social objectives. It is the hope of the Bahamas that
these reviews will be followed by a period of intense
implementation of decisions that have been agreed, so
that qualitative and quantitative improvements may be
realized in all areas. We believe that such
improvements are essential but must be in concert with
United Nations initiatives to meet demands in other
critical areas, such as conflict resolution, war, and
humanitarian crises worldwide. They should also be in
concert with the Organization’s efforts to address
effectively and comprehensively issues such as the
illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances, the illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons, alien smuggling and refugee flows, which do
not respect national boundaries. In all such cases, the
danger of inaction could have dire consequences,
particularly for international peace and security.
In conclusion, the current preoccupation with
terrorism has fortunately not paralysed the United
Nations. What it has done is to emphasize the need for
an effective and cohesive United Nations, capable of
responding flexibly to unexpected and contradictory
events in a timely and effective manner with little or no
disruption of its programmes in other areas. We believe
that the United Nations Charter constitutes a viable and
firm foundation for the Organization to balance and
achieve its objectives, to maintain international peace
and security and promote economic and social
progress. The Bahamas fully supports the United
Nations in all its endeavours.

"
56,2001,WSM,"﻿Samoa is very pleased
that we are meeting under the presidency of Mr. Han.
On behalf of my Government, I extend warm
congratulations to the President of the General
Assembly and express to him our full confidence and
cooperation.
Allow me also a moment to pay tribute to his
predecessor, President Harri Holkeri, for his
8

outstanding service and leadership during the fifty-fifth
session of the General Assembly, and for the
significant achievements of that session.
We are delighted with the award of the Nobel
Peace Prize to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
and to our Organization. I want, in particular, to
congratulate the Secretary-General and to wish him
every success in his new term of office. His personal
qualities and extraordinary leadership give shape to the
modern face of the United Nations in ways that give
force and credibility to the Organization and its
performance.
The terrorist attacks of 11 September marked a
turning point in the history of our era. These terrible
events give special significance to this session of the
Assembly. We need to send out from this house an
unambiguous message.
The clear view of my Government is that there is
no room for moral equivocation. The deliberate taking
of innocent civilian life, regardless of cause or
grievance, is without justification in law and is morally
unacceptable. My Government has declared its strong
condemnation of the attacks in New York, Washington,
D.C., and Pennsylvania, and I want today to underscore
that condemnation in unequivocal terms.
On behalf of my country and its citizens, I want
to renew to the Government and the people of the
United States our profound feelings of sorrow and
sympathy and our committed solidarity and support. I
also want to say that the leadership, magnificent
example and courage shown by the United States
demonstrate beyond doubt the extraordinary strengths
of that great democracy and the indomitable spirit of its
people.
This was a most monstrous crime, evil in
premeditation and merciless in execution. Thousands
of innocent lives were taken, thousands of people
murdered without warning. To the families and friends
of the victims — which included citizens of many other
countries represented in this Hall — we extend our
warm and heartfelt condolences.
Terrorism is an offence against the core values of
the United Nations. It is a direct and most serious
threat to democracy, to the free exercise of human
rights and to economic and social development. It has
no respect for social order, human life and property.
This has never been clearer than in the aftermath
of these terrible attacks against the United States.
Furthermore, these horrific events not only have served
to highlight the need for a concerted and effective
international response but have also drawn attention to
the inadequacy of the traditional forms of judicial and
law enforcement in combating it.
There cannot be any question as to the need for
an effective response from the international
community. Indeed, the Security Council’s unanimous
and momentous resolution 1373 (2001), together with
resolution 1368 (2001), gives the clearest signal of the
international community’s determination to take
concrete action against the financing, training and
movement of terrorists and the need for all States to
cooperate in any campaign against them. We believe
they provide the necessary basis for securing the
broadest possible international support and cooperation
for the global campaign against terrorism, in particular
through the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee.
I am pleased to announce that as part of its own
response in this collective effort, Samoa is taking steps
to adhere to additional United Nations conventions on
international terrorism.
We believe, however, that we need to bear in
mind that fighting terrorism cannot be separated from
the task of preventing organized crime and the spread
of small arms and other weapons, and of containing
and ending conflict. We also need to ensure that the
conditions of poverty and despair, which breed
ignorance, hatred, violence and extremism, are
properly and effectively addressed.
We need, above all, to remain resolute in
upholding the rule of law and the principles that
underpin the rule of law. The clear affirmation of these
principles and of the norms of humanitarian and
international law will help deny to the perpetrators of
these crimes whatever they seek to gain from violence.
We consider it essential to renew efforts to
promote the rapid entry into force of the Rome Statute
of the International Criminal Court. A functioning
international criminal court for the prosecution of
terrorist acts amounting to crimes against humanity —
as we consider the attacks on the United States to be —
would provide a vital component in the international
armoury against terrorism.
9

This fifty-sixth session of the Assembly is the
first to follow last year’s Millennium Summit. It will
be the ideal occasion to take up the critical issues and
strategies for implementing the Millennium
Declaration. May I say in this connection that we
warmly welcome and find most useful the road map
report of the Secretary-General, setting out in some
detail how the Summit commitments could be fulfilled.
We note that most of the targets set by the
Millennium Declaration are not really new. They are
the determined results of global conferences of the
1990s or are derived from the body of international
norms and laws that have been codified over the past
50 years. It follows that the plans of action needed for
reaching the targets have, for the most part, already
been developed and formally adopted by Member
States.
What is needed, therefore, is not more technical
or feasibility studies. Rather, as the Secretary-General’s
report points out, States need to demonstrate the
political will to carry out commitments already made
and to implement strategies already worked out. In
other words, as we move from an era of commitment to
an era of implementation, the international community
must mobilize the will and the resources needed to
fulfil the promises made.
Samoa was honoured recently to host a Pacific
regional meeting as part of the preparatory work for the
World Summit on Sustainable Development in
Johannesburg next September. It is important to seek
further progress in these preparations, especially in the
completion of national assessment reports. We believe
the Summit will be a unique opportunity to re-establish
international commitment to sustainable development.
Our own view is that there is a need to accelerate the
comprehensive and targeted implementation of Agenda
21. Efforts to this end should aim to minimize and
remove obstacles that impede the implementation of
the Rio commitments, especially in capacity-building
needs and in the provision of adequate financial and
technological support.
We place particular importance on the
International Conference on Financing for
Development. The agenda of the Conference allows for
a full range of substantive issues to be addressed. It
would be important to forge broad-based consensus on
all these issues, and even more so on the reform of the
international financial and trade architecture in a way
that would be supportive of the long-term development
of developing countries. There should be enhanced
opportunities for the representation and participation of
developing countries, including small island States, in
the major decision-making institutions on global
financing, monetary and trade issues.
It is impossible today to visualize progress and
development without access to modern information
systems. The remarkable growth of information and
communication technologies (ICT) is opening up
boundless new possibilities for accelerated economic
and social development. But the ability to translate the
full potential of ICT differs from country to country. I
know my country needs to develop its own capacity to
do so. Yet we know that, for a developing country like
my own, there is no real option but to take full
advantage of the digital revolution. We will therefore
be supporting every global effort to call attention to the
need for bridging the digital divide.
The turn of the millennium has brought new
challenges, and with it changes to the character and
complexity of the United Nations role in maintaining
international peace and security. Samoa is proud to
have been able to contribute to the civilian police
operations in East Timor. From this experience it is
clear to us that if the United Nations is to do its job of
maintaining international peace and security, it needs to
be given the necessary tools and resources.
We have learned a great deal from the report of
the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, and we
know that the United Nations needs to improve its
capacity to respond to conflicts more effectively. And
we need to move forward with the peacekeeping
reform process.
The recognition implicit in the awarding of the
Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations means that
more than ever, we need to modernize and strengthen
our Organization. We fully support the current efforts
to review and revitalize the working methods of the
General Assembly.
We commend most highly the work of the
General Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group on
reform of the Security Council and its Bureau. Difficult
and critical issues remain. But we need to maintain the
political momentum provided in the Millennium
Summit for comprehensive reform of the Security
Council. Membership of the Council, both permanent
and non-permanent, needs to be enlarged to reflect the
10

realities of the present time and to enhance its role and
effectiveness.
Finally, let me refer to the twenty-second special
session of the General Assembly, in 1999, that
reviewed the Barbados Programme of Action for the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States. Since that time, a number of global events, such
as the tenth session of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development and the Third United
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries
have recalled the fragility of small island States in the
globalizing economy. We, of course, are grateful for
this acknowledgement. However, I believe I reflect the
aspiration of all small island States in saying that we
need to do much more in terms of concrete actions -
actions that will only be meaningful if we are assured
of the committed support of the whole international
community.
Overcoming the well-recognized vulnerability of
small island States like my own, and the exposure of
island communities to the effects of global climate
change, natural disasters, environmental damage and
global economic shocks will be an essential element of
sustainable development in all small island regions.
May I say, in this connection, that Samoa very
much welcomes the successful conclusion yesterday in
Marrakech of the seventh session of the Conference of
the Parties to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change. The completion of the
operational details of the Kyoto Protocol will, we hope,
open the way to widespread ratification by
Governments and the Protocol’ s early entry into force,
perhaps by the time of the Johannesburg World Summit
next year.
The struggle against climate change is not just an
environmental issue. It is also a matter of fundamental
development. It is so because the adverse impact of
climate change endangers economic and social
progress. This is most certainly the case for small
island States, which are widely acknowledged to be
among the most vulnerable and the least able to adapt.
The world community’s response to climate change
therefore requires significant, long-term changes in
economic and social behaviour. The United Nations has
an urgent and vital responsibility in this task as well.

"
56,2001,SEN,"﻿Pending
further news, I also wish to share in the sadness we all
feel on the announcement of an aeroplane crash in
Queens.
Through me, Senegal has the pleasure of
addressing its warm congratulations to Mr. Han Seung-
soo on his brilliant election to the presidency of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
His election clearly is a tribute to his outstanding
qualities as a diplomat and statesman and it also
expresses the unanimous recognition of the Member
States of our Organization of his country, the Republic
of Korea, for its steadfast commitment to the service of
universal peace and international cooperation.
I wish to express to his predecessor, His
Excellency Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, our deep
gratitude for the competence, commitment and spirit of
openness with which he discharged his mandate during
a particularly heavy year.
Finally, I am happy to reiterate Senegal’s deep
appreciation to the Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Kofi Annan, and at the same time to reiterate to
him our wholehearted compliments on his historic re-
election, the dazzling consecration of outstanding
qualities of a man of good will, conviction and vision,
who has devoted his life to the noble causes of the
United Nations. I also congratulate him on the brilliant
recognition he and the United Nations have just
received as the Nobel Peace Prize laureates.
He deserves our full support in the pursuit and the
achievement of the outstanding work in the area of
reform in which he, along with his colleagues, is fully
invested to bring our Organization closer to the
realities of the twenty-first century.
The terrorist attempts of 11 September, which
tragically struck New York, the Headquarters of our
Organization, Washington and Pennsylvania, have
radically changed our vision of the world and of
international relations. My country, Senegal, once
again conveys its sympathy to the people of the United
States and reiterates its heartfelt condolences to the
bereaved families.
Let us say it unambiguously: there is no moral,
religious or political cause noble enough to justify
17

terrorism or its always barbarous manifestations —
which all of us without exception must condemn with
unwavering unity and with the utmost force.
Senegal is a secular democratic country whose
population is more than 90 per cent Muslim; we reject
all forms of confrontation between religions, cultures
or civilizations. Senegal believes that Islam, like other
revealed religions, is a faith of peace and tolerance, and
vigorously condemns any equation of Islam with
terrorism and any attempt to invoke or use religion for
criminal purposes. The massacre of pregnant women
and the destruction of buildings occupied by innocent
civilians — God’s creatures every one — are acts that
have no justification in any religion, least of all Islam,
whose banner of peace and harmony among men and
women, peoples, cultures and civilizations we proudly
bear.
Beyond simply condemning terrorism in all its
forms, methods and manifestations, the international
community must act firmly to eradicate terrorism, its
sources of financing and its bases of action throughout
the world.
Senegal is committed to that course, which is why
His Excellency President Abdoulaye Wade took the
well known initiative of convening on 17 October at
Dakar an African conference against terrorism, in
which 27 countries participated. President Wade
submitted to that forum a draft African pact against
terrorism as a needed complement to the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) Convention on the Prevention
and Combating of Terrorism. The conference ended
with the adoption of the Dakar Declaration against
Terrorism, which firmly condemned terrorism in all its
forms; reaffirmed our solidarity with all victims of
terrorist acts, in particular the thousands of innocent
civilian citizens of countries throughout the world who
died on 11 September; and invited the OAU promptly
to convene an extraordinary session on terrorism to
consider, inter alia, the draft African pact against
terrorism submitted by Senegal with the support of
other countries.
Let me make it clear that those who argue that
Africa has priorities other than terrorism are surely
forgetting that tragedy resulting from acts of blind
slaughter struck first in Africa: in Kenya and Tanzania.
With bald lack of consideration and respect for African
lives, bombers in Nairobi killed 12 United States
nationals and 212 Kenyans and wounded more than
3,000 of our Kenyan brothers and sisters. They have
never expressed any regret, much less remorse, for
their obvious contempt for us. Fighting international
terrorism means saying loud and clear that Africans,
like Europeans, Americans and all the other peoples of
the world, have an equal right to safety, security,
stability and peace.
That is the powerful message that His Excellency
President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal wants to echo
throughout the world. Let us remember his initiative
for a genuine security policy in Africa, along with his
initiative to review African debt and his Omega
Plan — a genuine African globalization strategy which
has now been merged with the Millennium Partnership
for African Recovery to form the New African
Initiative.
There are years that the long march of history
cannot conceal or obliterate, and the past 12-month
period is undoubtedly among these; it was
extraordinarily rich in events of great importance both
for the United Nations and for Africa, the seat of
humankind. Thus, within the framework of the fifty-
fifth session, the Millennium Summit brought together
in this Hall heads of State or Government to, in the
felicitous words of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, identify and work to solve the world’s major
problems.
In an extraordinary convergence of views, world
leaders reaffirmed their faith in the United Nations and
its irreplaceable mission to protect international peace
and security, to fight poverty, to promote economic and
social development, to strengthen democracy and the
rule of law and to ensure justice and equity among
citizens, peoples, cultures and civilizations.
In view of the universality which is the hallmark
of the United Nations and which was reaffirmed at the
Millennium Summit, Senegal firmly supports the
legitimate request of the Republic of China on Taiwan
to resume its seat in the Organization and in its
specialized agencies. That request is not directed
against any State Member of the United Nations; meeting
it would be a key contribution to consolidating the
ideal of the universality of the United Nations and to
the advent of an era of peace and stability in that
sensitive part of the world.
Africa remains the region where some conflicts
seem to exist in tragic eternity; it is where nearly half
of the world’s refugees and displaced persons are to be
18

found; it is the site of 33 of the world’s 48 least
developed countries. Africa is also the region whose
inhabitants are the most appallingly affected by the
HIV/AIDS and malaria pandemics. Unquestionably,
that enormously disturbing situation calls out to the
entire international community and, in particular, to
Africans. That is why it is important to implement the
outcome of the twenty-sixth special session of the
General Assembly, which was devoted to the fight
against HIV/AIDS.
Last July, the African Union was christened at the
historic Lusaka summit of the OAU. By that historic
act, Africa committed itself, in a proactive and unified
spirit, to find African solutions to the many challenges
before it, by establishing a modern, viable, open
institutional framework that can respond to Africa’s
emergencies and needs in the new century. Here, I
renew my congratulations to my friend and brother
Amara Essy, to whom African heads of State or
Government have entrusted the task of following Salim
Ahmed Salim in shouldering the high responsibilities
of the post of Secretary-General of the OAU and of
putting in place the new structures of the African
Union.
The second major event of the Lusaka summit is
part of the same pan-African dynamic: the adoption of
a plan for the economic and social development of
Africa, known as the New African Initiative — the new
partnership for the development of Africa, to which I
earlier referred. This has the quality of having been
conceived by Africans for Africa on the basis of the
merger of two novel projects: the Omega Plan of
President Abdoulaye Wade; and the programme for an
African renaissance of Presidents Thabo Mbeki of
South Africa, Abelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria and
Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria. That joint initiative
should help create the synergy needed to eradicate
poverty in Africa and to lay the foundations for
sustainable economic and social development, which is
a prerequisite for integrating the continent into the
ongoing process of globalization.
For the first time in the history of plans for the
renewal of Africa, an international conference on the
financing of the New African Initiative is planned for
January 2002 at Dakar. That forum will truly be an
African Davos and should make it possible to hold a
fruitful dialogue among all development partners that
have understood the renewal heralded by the new plan,
which sums up our experiences and symbolizes the
hopes of all of us who unconditionally love Africa.
There has been impressive progress in Africa this
year with respect to the urgent need to tackle the root
causes of the many conflicts that shake the continent
and to work peacefully towards their lasting resolution.
On the crises in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
in Burundi and in Sierra Leone, we are pleased to say
that significant milestones have been reached by all
actors in the implementation of peace agreements
already concluded.
From that standpoint, there is true cause for
encouragement in the beginning of an inter-Congolese
dialogue in Gaborone, Botswana, and the recent
formation, with the help of the incomparable Nelson
Mandela, of the transitional government of Burundi for
national reconciliation. It is now up to the Security
Council to perform all of its responsibilities under
Chapter VII of the Charter. These efforts deserve to be
intensified and given diplomatic support by the
international community through concrete actions to
finance strategies for post-conflict peace-building. In
the same spirit, it is important to support the efforts of
Angola and the Organization of African Unity for the
rapid settlement of the conflict in that country.
In light of the debt crisis aggravated by the
exponential drop in official development assistance, the
international community must explore new ways and
means to develop the third world, especially Africa,
through, inter alia, an increase in direct foreign
investment. It is this break with the past — this
“epistemological” departure — that our President
proposes to Africa and its partners. He argues that the
aid/credit couplet, which has been the principal way to
finance development in Africa and has led to the
impasse we all know, should be abandoned and
replaced by an approach that makes Africa attractive
and competitive, leading to a massive inflow of private
investment, both domestic and international.
The cycle of debt followed by ever greater
debt — a cycle that has been described by our
President as a scourge similar to the slavery that
devastated Africa — should give way to an approach
that brings in massive investment in an adequate fiscal
and legal environment — investment capable of filling
the gaps in priority sectors such as infrastructure,
education, health, agriculture, new technologies and
access to the markets of developed countries. This
19

approach, of course, would be part of a strategy of
good political and economic governance and
unqualified respect for the rule of law, democracy and
human rights.
Africa is relying greatly on the results of the
Ministerial Conference of the World Trade
Organization that just opened in Doha; the
International Conference on Financing for
Development in Monterrey, scheduled for March 2002;
and the World Summit on Sustainable Development in
Johannesburg, planned for September, to provide
innovative solutions to the challenges besetting Africa
at the beginning of this millennium.
Looking sadly toward the Middle East, Senegal is
following recent developments with great concern and
feels solidarity with the Palestinian people in light of
the new tragedy. Horrified by the scope of this tragedy,
Senegal condemns the Israeli occupation of Palestinian
territories and the intensification of acts of violence
against innocent civilians. Senegal addresses an earnest
appeal to all the parties, the co-sponsors of the peace
process, the European Union, the Security Council and
the international community, for the withdrawal of
Israeli forces from the occupied Palestinian areas; for
the immediate cessation of all acts of violence and
provocation; for respect for the Geneva Convention
Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time
of War and the relevant United Nations resolutions; for
the resumption of peace negotiations in accordance
with the agreed timetable; and for the conclusion of an
overall settlement agreement that is just, durable and in
conformity with resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973)
of the Security Council.
Peace cannot prosper nor can the development of
the region be ensured so long as Israelis and
Palestinians fail in their efforts to forge bonds of
confidence, as sovereign States within internationally
recognized and guaranteed borders. I am happy to note
that the European Union and the United States have
recently affirmed this, inasmuch as Israel and the
future State of Palestine each have the right to exist, to
live in peace and to develop in security and dignity.
I wish to conclude by saying that the
consolidation of the rule of law and the promotion and
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms
remain one of the major focal points of our national
and foreign policy. The special importance that our
President attaches to these matters has been eloquently
expressed in the appointment of a woman to the post of
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
was held, despite all obstacles, and dealt with its
agenda despite the complexity of the issues and the
particularly difficult conditions under which the
negotiations took place. My country, which had the
honour to preside over the work of the Preparatory
Committee, once again addresses a solemn appeal to all
actors in international life to translate the Declaration
and Plan of Action adopted at Durban into action.
Thus, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, the
world can be definitively freed of the scourge of
racism, which represents a grave infringement of
human dignity and a flagrant violation of human rights.
Speaking of human rights, we also naturally think
of the rights of women and children. The twenty-
seventh special session of the General Assembly,
planned for 8-10 May 2002, will adopt a new agenda
for the international community aimed at better
ensuring, safeguarding and defending the rights of the
child and promoting the Convention on that subject.
The commitments to which our Governments will
subscribe must be implemented, as must the
conclusions of the Fourth World Youth Forum of the
United Nations system, held in Senegal in August this
year.
It is imperative that we face the challenges of
peace and development. We have no other choice but to
do so through multilateralism and universalism. Thus
the world needs the United Nations, an organization
that is universal and unique. This is the conviction of
Senegal, which proclaims that a United Nations that is
well restructured and more representative would be
better equipped to face the challenges that humanity
confronts today. Those challenges seem as immovable
as mountains, but everything is possible in a world of
solidarity, brotherhood, security and respect for the
sacred character of human life, dignity and the
inalienable right of all peoples to happiness and liberty.

"
56,2001,VEN,"﻿Just
over a year ago, we were here, attending the
Millennium Summit, some 100 days before the dawn of
the twenty-first century. At that time, I made a
statement on behalf of Venezuela and its Bolivarian
people, referring to the supreme example of Christ and
his struggle for justice, peace and life.
In the brief span of time since then, having
embarked on the new century — albeit with very
painful steps, I should say — we have suffered the
abominable terrorist attack of 11 September. In
opposition to the culture of peace, to the dialogue
among civilizations declared by the United Nations in
2001 and to the good will of the peoples of the world,
the drums of war are suddenly thundering again and we
say, louder and more passionately than we have in the
past, that this struggle for peace is of fundamental
importance.
From the outset, Venezuela and its people,
Government and institutions have joined in the chorus
of voices that first rose to reject these heinous acts. At
this meeting in New York, in this incredible city, in this
nation of North America, we take this opportunity to
reiterate our grief and sympathy for the people and
Government of the United States and its institutions
over the attacks and the pain they have caused. We say,
as we have said from the very day of the tragedy that
has plunged the world into mourning and peril, that the
fight against terrorism should become a war against
war — a fight to achieve peace.
At the Millennium Summit, we also said, like
Simón Bolívar, the liberator of South America,
remembering his dream of the summit of Chimborazo:
Let us speak the truth to all men and women. And
precisely on the basis of the horrible and frightful
truths that we are experiencing today in the world, let
us call for a new world pact in the United Nations. We
said in that speech just over one year ago that at the
present time in our world human beings continue to die
each day, but now the figures have doubled, and not
because of a world war. No, now the principal causes
of the horrible truth affecting the world’s people are
poverty, marginalization and hunger. What is foremost
in this dramatic and tragic moment is that we must
recognize the truth and then build a new global pact in
the United Nations without delay.
Now, at the beginning of the twenty-first century
and the third millennium, we at the United Nations
should concentrate our greatest possible efforts on the
moral, intellectual, scientific, social, cultural, economic
and financial order in the fight against the demons of
hunger, poverty and death that afflict the planet. This is
what we said a year ago in this beautiful setting. I
believe we are fulfilling the mandate of Bolívar to state
the truth to all men and women.
Venezuela recognized the validity, the necessity,
the great vision and the truth that our Secretary-
General launched as a challenge to all of us in the
preparatory document that subsequently became the
Millennium Declaration. Today, our dear friend Kofi
Annan reminded us of that challenge in his comments
opening this session of debates, when he recalled, for
example, that last year we committed ourselves to
reducing poverty 50 per cent by the year 2015, having
set quantifiable and precise goals, such as reducing by
half the number of human beings who survive on
incomes of less than one dollar per day.
At the Millennium Summit, great truths were
stated and we heard the appeals of our peoples. We said
then and continue to say that all of the world’s children
must have access to a full education by the year 2015.
As the Secretary-General also reminded us, all human
beings should have access to potable water. We are not
talking about the Internet — we are talking about
drinking water, the water basic to life.
The goals set last year were discussed over the
following weeks in hundreds of marvellous speeches.
But today, one year later, we must continue to ask
ourselves how we are going to achieve them. What are
the successful strategies that can be employed to
achieve these lofty goals? The answer is justice, the
only path to true peace. We said that we had come to
uncover truths; that for the honour, dignity and life of
our peoples, we must come here to speak without fear.
We said that here, in this setting, we must speak
without the double standard that sometimes invades our
discussions. As I see our brothers from India here, I
think of the Hindu philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurti,
who spoke of truth as a basic dynamic in understanding
the secrets of life. Truth, truth, truth. We want truths. If
we do not recognize truths, it will be difficult for us to
24

find true solutions to the horrible tragedies that the
world is living through.
On behalf of the people of Venezuela, I return
here today to contribute ideas to the effort to seek
truths and to speak true words that spring from a
combination of reason and passion. They are not just
cold words on paper but come from the heart, and they
must not remain on paper as cold discourse but must
touch the wound of real truth. Today, truth is an open
wound and it is our ultimate challenge to heal it. We
come, then, without fear, in good faith and with much
optimism about life, brotherhood, unity and the
possibility that we, as the leaders of our countries, can
seek, grasp and build together real solutions to real
problems in the quest for justice and peace.
We in Venezuela believe that the world must be
examined under a great and powerful magnifying glass,
because it has gone to bad to worse, stumbling and
struggling from error to error. At the end of the Second
World War, the United Nations was born to struggle for
peace and prevent new horrors from happening. We
have not avoided those horrors. The Berlin Wall and
the Soviet Union fell at the end of the twentieth
century, and voices were raised saying history has
come to an end: we have arrived at the end of our path,
the final era, one of technology, of the global village,
of globalization, of the new world order. This is the
triumph of a model — the triumph of one philosophy
as the result of the collapse of another. But that claim
was a lie. Who can claim victory in today’s world,
which is filled with poverty and tears, pain and death?
What model could claim victory?
Venezuela would like to make a fervent and
passionate appeal, hopeful that we will be properly
understood — indeed, we are sure that we will be,
because we are speaking with love, faith and hope,
calling on the Lord God, invoking life and peace and
respect for brotherhood. Let our words be properly
understood. We must undertake a thorough
examination of and review the political models that
exist in our countries today. In America we speak of
democracy — yes, democracy. But in Venezuela we ask
what kind of democracy we are talking about. A
democracy such as Venezuela had for 40 years, from
1958 to 1998, which ended up destroying a people,
taking away their sovereignty and causing them to live
in poverty in a fertile land rich with resources such as
oil and gold? That was no more than an ornamental
flourish that mimicked democracy, and it ended in
tyranny. We never again want such a democracy in
Venezuela, and we are certain that we will never have
it again. Democracy must be based on popular
participation, ethics, justice and equality.
We in Venezuela have been saying that we must
also review the economic models that some tried to put
in place among our peoples. Is neoliberalism the way?
Yes — it is the way to hell. Let us traverse the streets
and cities of Latin America and we will see the
consequences of neoliberal policies run wild, as His
Holiness John Paul II has said. We must review our
economies, our ethics, our policies — everything must
be re-examined today if we want the world to be a
viable place and if we want peace to reign on earth.
Is globalization the path to development? It could
be, if it were based on justice, equality and respectful
relations among all. We need to re-examine everything.
As Viviane Forrester said, using the phrase “economic
horror”, the world is undergoing a process of change,
and that should also be cause for optimism. The world
is changing; it is moving on. New developments are
taking place; let us move with them, peacefully and
democratically, while searching for justice. As Ignacio
Ramonet said in his reflections in Le Monde
Diplomatique, alternative paths are appearing all over
the world. Venezuela is making its humble contribution
through a peaceful and democratic revolution. We are
committed to the human being, to an international
policy of peace, friendship, respect and multipolarity.
And we are here today to reaffirm that commitment.
Venezuela is speaking out in condemning
terrorism. Venezuela is speaking out — and taking
action — in expressing its solidarity in the struggle
against terrorism. At the same time, in speaking out we
are giving voice to the mandate of the United Nations
to ensure respect for international law and human
rights. Any action taken against any crime must be
legitimate. It must be based on respect for human rights
and international law. No one should understand
Venezuela’s words to be a condemnation of anything or
anyone. We are calling for reflection so as to ensure
that we act within the norms of international law and
the mandates of the United Nations. We cannot throw
that overboard.
Venezuela has also shouldered its responsibility
in various forums and international arenas. Within the
Organization of American States, we are proposing that
a social charter be adopted, in addition to the
25

Democratic Charter, to give more weight to our
continent’s struggles to place the human being at the
forefront of our endeavours. Within the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, of which we hold the
presidency of the conference of heads of State, we
proposed — and achieved consensus among all — to
ensure balance and dialogue between the producers and
consumers of oil, aware as we are of the need to
guarantee supplies and a fair price for all for that vital
resource for development and for life.
Within the Group of Fifteen, Venezuela, which
holds the chairmanship, is promoting the North-South
dialogue, in particular the need to revitalize it. It
should not be a dialogue of the deaf, but a dialogue of
equals who are seeking solutions — dialogue and
cooperation of South with South and of Latin American
and the Caribbean with Africa, Asia and all the peoples
of the world. Within the Group of 77, Venezuela is
working for the same strategic consensus, dialogue and
unity. We are very optimistic, as everyone should be.
Despite everything, however, we need great
political will — greater political will — to bring about
all of those changes and transformations. To use the
vocabulary of the theory of war, we must put the
cavalry on the front line. The cavalry is policy; the
cavalry is ethics and the will for change, which we
must promote.
Finally, I believe that, over and above the pain,
the condemnation and the struggle against terrorism
and against the savages who perpetrated those horrific
attacks, the greatest honour must go to the fallen — the
innocent victims of those acts, and the many other
victims throughout the world, those who have suffered
and for whom we have wept: the innocent children who
have fallen, the men and the women. The British Prime
Minister, Tony Blair, said something that I thought was
wonderful in response to a comment that I made during
a conversation we had in Downing Street a few days
ago. He said that if anything good can come from this
crisis and this pain, it is a global alliance to combat the
causes of violence throughout the world.
Those who have spoken before me have pointed
out many of these causes. The Emir of Qatar and
Chairman of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference also made a very important point. He said
that our words should not once again remain empty. As
we say in our part of the world, there is a big difference
between words and action. Now is the time to move
towards concrete action. We want to see a Palestinian
State become a reality. Let us not come here day after
day, month after month and year after year just to
repeat the same old words. Let us move on towards
reality. We want to see the transformation of the
Bretton Woods institutions. We want to see the
transformation of the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank. We want justice for the wretched of
the Earth, as Frantz Fanon said. But we want it now,
not tomorrow; tomorrow may be too late.
In conclusion, as I said during the debate on 7
September last year, quoting from the Bible,
“To everything there is a season, and a time
to every purpose under the heaven”. (The Holy
Bible, Ecclesiastes 3:1)
Sisters and brothers of this planet in sorrow, of this our
world, let us do all that we can. Truly, we must
transform this difficult time in which we are living into
a time of the people, a time of justice; that is the only
way to achieve genuine peace. As I ended by saying
last year, let us save the world!






"
56,2001,CIV,"﻿The opening of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly has coincided with tragic events for the host
country and for the entire world. On behalf of the
Government and the people of Côte d’Ivoire, allow me
to take this opportunity to once again express our
sincere condolences and sympathy to the Government
and the people of the United States and to all the other
countries directly affected by this tragedy.
The delegation of Côte d’Ivoire is pleased to
extend its warm congratulations to the President on his
election to lead the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. We would also like to extend our
congratulations to his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri,
who so ably guided the work of the Assembly at its
fifty-fifth session.
Our Organization and its Secretary-General have
just been honoured with the prestigious Nobel Peace
Prize. The Government and the people of Côte d’Ivoire
hail this well-deserved international recognition of the
importance and quality of the work done by the
Organization under the leadership of the Secretary-
General.
My delegation extends to Mr. Kofi Annan its
warm and fraternal congratulations on his historic re-
election and on the greatly appreciated work he is
doing as the head of the United Nations. The
recognition he has just received is an illustration of the
universal appreciation of his great qualities as a
diplomat and statesman, which he has put at the service
of peace and development.
In organizing the Millennium Summit and in his
personal involvement in the holding of the special
session on HIV/AIDS, as well as his involvement in the
special session on children, the Secretary-General has
put back on the agenda the concerns of developing
countries in general, including those of Côte d’Ivoire.
It is absolutely vital to sensitize the international
community on matters related to the fight against
poverty and improving protection of the rights of
women and children, to mention just two areas. Côte
d’Ivoire would like to express its appreciation in this
regard.
Finally, the Government and the people of Côte
d’Ivoire would like to express their gratitude to
Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his great
understanding of, and support for, Côte d’Ivoire
throughout the very difficult times it has experienced
since the end of 1999. He demonstrated this once again
by sending a personal representative to the forum on
national reconciliation that is now under way. The
Government and the people of Côte d’Ivoire and the
international community have great hopes for that
forum, whose success will help all participants to
dispel misunderstandings and help Côte d’Ivoire to
resume its economic growth in order to be able to play
its proper role.
My Government attaches great importance to a
social policy aimed at combating poverty and meeting
the needs of all sectors of our population in the areas of
health, education, employment and nutrition. As part of
that policy, a strategy document on poverty reduction is
being prepared.
Beginning in June 2002, a health insurance plan
will be in place as part of a national social security
system. Through that plan everyone living in Côte
d’Ivoire will be able to have health insurance,
regardless of social status. The National Assembly
adopted the necessary laws to that end on 9 October.
No effort will spared to ensure that we eliminate
the most serious social shortcomings as soon as
possible. In that regard, our greatest ambition is for
development and growth to reach the most remote
regions and for the necessary basic services of running
water, electricity, schools and health-care centres to be
available to all the people in every village of Côte
d’Ivoire. It is with this goal in mind that the
Government has established a decentralization
programme, thanks to which 58 departments of Côte
d’Ivoire will be able to administer themselves and
oversee their own development on the basis of a
33

budgetary packet granted to them annually through
legislative appropriations.
In order to attain these various objectives, the
macroeconomic framework will have to be improved
through rigorous legal and budgetary measures and
through good governance. Côte d’Ivoire is strongly
determined to do its very best in this area.
Ensuring the well-being of children and the
protection of their rights is a priority for my country.
The special session on children will take place in a few
months, and our Government places great hope in the
fact that it will give us an opportunity to clarify the
actions we are taking in favour of children, particularly
in the fight against cross-border trafficking in children.
Last June, in this very Hall, States adopted new
measures and initiatives in order to ensure the effective
implementation of the Beijing Declaration and
Platform for Action. Côte d’Ivoire endorses all of these
recommendations and will do everything possible
within the framework of a renewal policy to reach as
quickly as possible this objective, which is intended to
ensure equal opportunity among men and women.
The problem of HIV/AIDS has become one of the
major concerns of the world today in general and for
Africa in particular. UN/AIDS statistics and those of
many other institutions state that throughout the world
over 30 million people are infected, of which 1.2
million are children. Africa represents only 10 per cent
of the planet’s population; nevertheless, since the
beginning of this epidemic, 83 per cent of all deaths
due to AIDS have fallen to Africa. As the Secretary-
General has rightly stressed in his report of 16
February 2001, if the epidemic continues to grow at the
present rate, the most affected nations will see a
decrease of at least 25 per cent of their estimated
economic growth over the next 20 years. For this
reason we are very glad to see the setting up of a
Global AIDS and Health Fund at the United Nations
Secretary-General’s initiative. It would also be a good
time to set up mechanisms promoting the exchange of
experience among those countries which have managed
to halt the spread of HIV/AIDS and those which are
still seeking solutions to it.
No country can flourish if international peace and
security are threatened, which is why Côte d’Ivoire is
extremely concerned by an arms race which dares not
speak its name. As party to the Pelindaba Treaty, Côte
d’Ivoire welcomes the increasing number of treaties
establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones in different
regions of the world.
The illicit proliferation and circulation of small
arms is another phenomenon that affects the African
continent, and West Africa in particular. This
phenomenon constitutes a permanent threat to peace
and slows down development in this region, where
over 15 million light weapons are circulating illegally.
Since the end of the Second World War, the
international community’s attention has focused on
nuclear arms. However, it is conventional small arms
that continue to create millions of victims. Here we
share the Secretary-General’s opinion expressed in his
Millennium Report: light weapons are indeed weapons
of mass destruction. They exacerbate regional conflicts
and contribute largely to the use of child soldiers. They
kill women, youth and children. The insecurity that this
creates prohibits any possibility of smooth economic
development.
As Members of the General Assembly know, on
31 October 1998 in Abuja, Nigeria, the Heads of State
of the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) decreed a moratorium aimed at reducing
the proliferation and circulation of light weapons in
West Africa. During the recent African summit, which
took place in Lusaka in July 2001, this moratorium was
extended for a three-year period, starting on 5 July
2001. This struggle can be efficient only if it is led by
the international community as a whole, and it has to
involve, of course, weapons manufacturers, official
users and civil society. The United Nations Conference
on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons
in All Its Aspects, which was held in New York from 9
to 20 July 2001, is in our opinion headed in the right
direction. Côte d’Ivoire is greatly interested in the
implementation of the Programme of Action adopted
by the Conference.
Eight years ago the General Assembly decided to
undertake the reform of the Security Council. As it
stands at the moment, the Council cannot be seen as a
democratic and representative body of all United
Nations Member States. The Council’s functions have
to be reinforced so that it can continue acting
efficiently as the United Nations body with the primary
role of ensuring the maintenance of international peace
and security. In order to do this, it is urgent and right
that the number of permanent and non-permanent
members be increased so that the composition of the
Council is in line with the complexity of a world that
34

has seen great development, both quantitative and
qualitative, in international relations, the key aspect
being the increased complexity of the problems to be
solved.
In our view, the expansion of the Council should
aim at re-adapting the whole mechanism of taking and
implementing decisions. This is why the exercise of the
right of veto, equitable representation and expansion of
membership are all problems that have to be solved as
soon as possible, bearing in mind the vital urgency of
reforming the Security Council so that all nations and
regions of the world can be reflected within it. In this
regard, the Organization of African Unity (OAU),
which has now become the African Union, seeks two
permanent seats and a total of five non-permanent seats
for the African continent. Of course, Côte d’Ivoire
supports this position.
To make the reform of the Security Council a
reality, it is essential for Member States of the United
Nations, particularly the five permanent members of
the Council, to demonstrate their firm will and
commitment to carry out these reforms. The primary
duty of the United Nations, after all, is to preserve and
promote peace throughout the world based on
democratic principles. But can there be peace without
justice or equality in relations between nations?
The world as a whole and the African continent in
particular, has been torn apart by regional conflicts and
civil wars that threaten international peace and
security. Various solutions proposed by the
international community for laying down arms and for
halting the suffering of civilian populations have not
yet, unfortunately, produced the expected results. We
need to find innovative and imaginative solutions that
are political, not military. In this perspective, we
welcome the Brahimi report on peacekeeping
operations, and we hope that its recommendations are
applied as soon as possible. The impetus that the
Brahimi report is intended to give to peacekeeping
operations has to be encouraged and maintained.
The events of 11 September 2001 confirm the
Côte d’Ivoire in its condemnation of all terrorist acts as
criminal and unjustifiable, wherever they may be
carried out and whoever the perpetrators may be,
particularly those that violate the purposes and
principles of the United Nations, pose a threat to
international peace and security and jeopardize friendly
relations between countries. This is why the
Government of Côte d’Ivoire welcomes and firmly
encourages the rapid conclusion of a general
convention on international terrorism. Such a
convention would undoubtedly contribute greatly to
fighting against this scourge and would reinforce an
international legal regime on terrorism. Côte d’Ivoire
will always respect the international commitments it
has assumed since its independence. We also feel that
the rule of law should be given top priority.
We would like to pay a well-deserved tribute here
to the International Law Commission for its valuable
contribution to the development and codification of
international law, in particular law relating to the
responsibility of States, diplomatic protection,
unilateral acts of States, reservations to treaties and
international responsibility in case of damaging
consequences arising from activities that are not
prohibited by international law.
At the dawn of the twenty-first century, the role
of the United Nations is crucial. Our Organization
represents, in fact, the collective conscience and is, as a
rule, the policeman of the world, able to balance the
interests of States — those well endowed and those not
so well endowed — within the new globalizing
economy. This regulatory role for the world economy
and for international relations can be carried out fully
only in an environment of international peace, justice
and equity.



"
56,2001,ATG,"﻿Antigua and
Barbuda is pleased that this is the United Nations Year
of Dialogue among Civilizations. However, we can
have meaningful dialogue only if the dominant
countries reach out with genuine understanding when
others speak. We can have dialogue only if the basic
principles of the United Nations are made the core of
reality. We cannot have dialogue if multilateralism
remains selective or if the principle of rotation
continues to be based on demographics, military might
and economic principles. The people of my country
represent an integral part of human civilization and we
wish to contribute our voice and our ideas to the debate
on the future of the journey of humankind on this
planet.
28

The tragic events of 11 September in the host
country of the United Nations have presented a
challenge to world civilization. The Parliament of
Antigua and Barbuda on Thursday, 18 October, passed
strong anti-terrorism legislation. Also, the Caribbean
Community, meeting in special emergency session in
the Bahamas on 11 and 12 October, recognized
terrorism as a global problem requiring a resolute
global response. The heads of Government stated:
“We are conscious that the unprecedented
and barbaric terrorist assaults of 11 September
will require of us extraordinary vigilance and
coordination in the future, to ensure that our
territories, our institutions and our citizens are
not used in any manner to facilitate the activities
of terrorists or to undermine our national and
regional security.”
We share the agony of the United States, for we
too had nationals who perished in the 11 September
atrocity. We fully support Security Council resolution
1373 (2001), which makes it obligatory for all States to
impose far-reaching measures to combat the scourge of
terrorism. We support the work of the Counter-
Terrorism Committee. International terrorism is in
reality an act of war against the world’s peace-loving
peoples. It is imperative that all countries of the world
address in a more meaningful manner the underlying
social, economic and political problems that cause
human misery and perpetuate injustice. We must act to
ensure that the entire global society lives in an
environment of freedom and is free from fear. The fight
against terrorism will be a long and arduous one, but it
is one in which we must thoroughly and completely
engage ourselves.
Antigua and Barbuda has now ratified the Rome
Statute for the International Criminal Court. The
citizens of my country believe that in the prospect of an
international criminal court lies the promise of
universal justice, since the Court will have the power to
indict individuals. Antigua and Barbuda is certainly
disappointed that crimes pertaining to drug trafficking
and terrorism have been put on the back burner at the
International Criminal Court, but we are prepared to
continue our dialogue to bring them under the ambit of
the Court when it becomes active. The cancer of drug
trafficking will continue to threaten human civilization
until we fashion a truly global response to its menace.
The battles in Seattle, Windsor and Quebec are an
integral part of world civilization’s struggle to
humanize globalization. Interestingly, we find
ourselves agreeing with the statement made by the
Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) in his address to members of the Deutsche
Bundestag on 2 April 2001 in Berlin. Mr. Köhler
declared that it is political and economic madness for
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) countries to spend $360 billion a
year on agricultural subsidies, while poverty rages in
developing countries, especially in the rural and
farming regions. He went on to say that it is high time
for industrial countries to honour their commitment to
provide 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for
official development assistance.
At the United Nations Millennium Summit, my
own Prime Minister, Lester Bird, castigated the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development for its unilaterally devised set of
standards for international taxation to be imposed on
other jurisdictions and for demanding that States
change their domestic laws to suit OECD purposes.
The rule of law has become the rule of the jungle,
where rules do not apply, and only might is right. In
reality, the OECD Harmful Tax Competition project
has nothing to do with money laundering, but has more
to do with the fact that OECD believes that its member
States would lose capital to other States with more
competitive tax regimes.
Globalization has left States like my own with a
feeling of exclusion, a feeling of being cast aside and
pushed outside, from where we observe the gains of the
dominant. It is a feeling of not being able to participate
in the determination of our own destiny. The “green
room” process evident at World Trade Organization
(WTO) ministerial meetings has done nothing but
increase our apprehension. We call for serious reform
of the global political and economic architecture to be
undertaken, both at the United Nations and at the
World Trade Organization. The multilateral trading
system needs to be transparent. It needs to be fair and
equitable, and all countries should be able to share in
its benefits.
Antigua and Barbuda, as a small island State, is
extremely vulnerable to natural disasters. The most
prevalent threat is that of hurricanes, three of which
recently impacted our sister States of Belize, Cuba and
the Bahamas. A single hurricane can set back the
29

development of a small island State by 10 years.
Between 1995 and 2000, our beloved twin island State
was hit by seven hurricanes.
We call on the international community to
acknowledge in a meaningful way the vulnerability of
small States like Antigua and Barbuda. We point to our
lack of capacity in financial and human resources to
bounce back from natural disasters and from external
shocks to its economy caused by economic recession in
the major economies of the world, which also happen
to be our main trading partners. It is therefore
imperative that we be able to continue to access
concessionary financing through the World Bank. Our
social and economic development needs, including
infrastructure, seem not to register in the boardrooms
of the international financial institutions.
Countries like Antigua and Barbuda are viewed
as middle income because of the per capita income
criterion, but this is a flawed measurement and should
be abandoned. Financing for development should take
into account a mix of factors and should be linked to
the vulnerability index on which the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has
done important work.
No account is taken of the considerable
transaction costs faced by small States because of their
remoteness and the disproportionate burden they bear
in order to effectively participate in world trade. No
account is taken of the openness of our economy to
goods and services from all over the world, without
corresponding market access for our own limited range
of goods to the markets of Europe and North America.
An inhospitable stranger known as “non-tariff barriers”
continues to slam the door in our face.
In these circumstances, we cannot overemphasize
how important it is for the IMF and the World Bank to
apply special and differential treatment to measuring
the fiscal and economic performance of small island
States. Our limited capacity to raise revenue and our
necessity to spend at a disproportionate level in order
to maintain a decent standard of living for our people
should lead the IMF to have special and differential
programmes of assistance for small island States.
These programmes should not merely prescribe the
traditional formula of large-scale public sector
dismissals and reduction of public sector investment
programmes. Instead, innovative ways should be found
to provide long-term financing at repayment periods
and rates of interest that would allow small States to
maintain democracy, human rights, low crime rates and
economic growth.
My country welcomes the successful conclusion
of the Marrakesh meeting on climate change, where the
parties to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change finalized the operational details of
the Kyoto Protocol, thereby opening the way to
widespread ratification by Governments and the
Protocol’s early entry into force. This was the result of
several years of tough negotiation in which Antigua
and Barbuda was very active and took a leadership
position. What we now have in place are the
institutions and detailed procedures of the Kyoto
Protocol, and the next step is to test their effectiveness
in overseeing the five per cent cut in greenhouse gas
emissions by developed countries over the next decade.
The agreements reached in Marrakesh also made
important progress on strengthening the flow of
financial and technological support to developing
countries so that they can move towards a sustainable
energy future. They also send a clear signal to
business, local governments and the general public that
climate-friendly products, services and activities will
be rewarded by consumers and national policies alike.
The meeting also adopted the Marrakesh
Ministerial Declaration as an input into next
September’s World Summit on Sustainable
Development, to be held in Johannesburg. The
Declaration emphasizes the contribution that action on
climate change can make to sustainable development
and calls for capacity building, technology innovation
and cooperation with the Biodiversity and
Desertification Conventions. With the Summit a little
less than a year away, small island developing States
such as my own, which are among the most vulnerable
to the adverse effects of climate change, continue to
urge the speedy ratification of the Protocol.
That will require a global coalition among States
to ensure that it enters into force and becomes legally
binding after it has been ratified by at least 55 parties
to the Convention, including the industrialized
countries that represent at least 55 per cent of the total
1990 carbon dioxide emissions from this group. While
it remains true that those with the highest per capita
levels of greenhouse gas emissions should take the
lead, it is incumbent upon all countries to work
30

together to ensure that there is full compliance with
commitments contained in the Protocol.
There is a deep concern in our countries, a
concern that takes on paramount proportions and that is
centred around the transhipment of nuclear waste
through the waters of the Caribbean Sea, and which
represents a blatant disregard of our sovereignty. The
countries of the Caribbean have insisted that it be
stopped, but to no avail; and our populations live in
constant fear of an accident. We call on those who
engage in this deadly traffic to respect the rights of
transit States such as Antigua and Barbuda.
The most populous democracy in the world,
India, spoke on the first day of the general debate and
highlighted concerns that we find it necessary to
reiterate. There needs to be a more determined
movement towards the liquidation of the external debts
of low income and highly indebted countries. There
should be poverty alleviation programmes designed for
countries facing financial crises, and there should be
stabilization of international prices of primary
commodity exports.
The measures that we have outlined here are
essential to building a just and equitable international
order. Anything less would simply be the imposition of
the will of the powerful upon the pusillanimous. All
societies are measured by the way they treat their most
vulnerable members, and the international community
of nations is no different. I call on all representatives
here assembled to heed the plea of the victims and to
construct an international order that can lift human
civilization to achieve the highest ideals of the United
Nations.



"
56,2001,JAM,"﻿I am delighted to join
in the chorus of warm congratulations already
expressed before this Assembly to the Secretary-
General of our Organization, His Excellency Mr. Kofi
Annan, and to the United Nations itself, on the joint
award of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize.
We also include in this proud salute those who
have fallen in the line of duty, while recognizing those
who continue to serve in areas of danger, all for the
cause of peace. It is a fitting tribute that that Prize,
dedicated to the cause of peace and so richly earned by
our Secretary-General in his own right and by the
United Nations Organization collectively, has been
conferred on them this year. No one doubts that the
accolades are truly deserved. They are most fitting at a
time when the entire world is in upheaval.
The catastrophic attacks, cynically perpetrated on
the International Day of Peace in the city that is host to
the United Nations, as well as elsewhere, have, in their
wanton slaughter of innocents and awesome
destructiveness, sent shock waves around the world.
The messiahs of terror have, by the sheer magnitude
and horror of their unprecedented crime against
humanity, unified nations and people in the
determination to remove the spectre of terrorism in all
its many forms, wherever it is manifested.
Jamaica stands firmly with the international
community on Security Council resolution 1373 (2001)
against terrorism. As a member of the Council, we
assert, with particular emphasis and deliberation, our
unwavering commitment to the cause of ending this
pernicious evil.
To defeat the forces of terror, our collective
action must be firm, decisive and broad-based.
International law must become a binding framework
for the total defeat of terrorism. Jamaica welcomes the
ongoing efforts to elaborate a draft comprehensive
convention against terrorism. We hope that during this
session of the General Assembly the momentum will
be seized to achieve measurable progress in this critical
area. At the same time, the international community
needs to take action aimed at achieving the universality
of the existing conventions and other instruments
against terrorism.
Jamaica is accelerating its domestic action to
achieve those objectives, and this morning I was
pleased to sign the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism.
For the past two years, Jamaica has worked with
other members of the Council to make peacekeeping
operations more efficient; to create strategies for
sustained peace-building; to bring warring factions to
the peace table and, beyond that, to promote
compliance with resulting accords; and to put in place
mechanisms for protecting those most affected by
situations of conflict, especially the women and
children.
We are pleased with the work already undertaken
in respect of the Brahimi report on peacekeeping
operations. Through a number of tribunals, we have
demonstrated that the United Nations will act to end
impunity. Despite sustained international efforts,
however, several flashpoints still remain.
Jamaica is deeply concerned about the continuing
cycle of violence and reprisal in the Middle East.
Efforts to achieve a durable ceasefire have been
thwarted at every turn. Numerous resolutions of the
Security Council have been ignored. We recognize the
positive efforts of some permanent members to
influence a return to the peace process, but the Security
Council should not be marginalized in these initiatives.
Jamaica again urges the Government of Israel and the
Palestinian Authority to spare no effort in complying
with agreements already reached. We call on both
parties to remain engaged in the quest for a durable
peace.
We dare not neglect the millions of children
worldwide who suffer from hunger, disease and
ignorance. In situations of conflict, children are the
most vulnerable victims. We have all been horrified by
their exploitation as child soldiers and by the
trafficking and sexual abuse that numerous children
have suffered. We have to remember that they
constitute the generation of tomorrow, in whose hands
will rest the future of international peace and security.
21

Nor must we forget the importance of
humanitarian assistance to the innocent people in
conflict-torn areas of the world and to refugees and
displaced persons, as well as to those who are victims
of natural and man-made disasters. For them, the
United Nations must become a beacon of hope for the
peace and stability that will enable them to lead normal
and productive lives.
Military strikes cannot by themselves eradicate
terrorism. In our response, we need to be mindful that
the time has come for us to inaugurate a new era of
peace — not simply through preventing war, but by
eliminating the causes that give rise to strife and
violence. And so I stand at this rostrum today to call
for a United Nations renaissance, for a rebirth of this
Organization, which will not just permit it to be the
harbinger of peace, but which will empower it to foster
a climate that will usher in a new age of global
development and a dynamic partnership for human
prosperity.
We are living in a time of fear, not just in this
country or here in this city, but worldwide: fear for the
lives of people; fear for the state of economies,
national and global; fear that our propensity for wanton
destruction may impair the capacity of the planet itself
to sustain life. These fears are compounded by other
blights — the blights of disease, ignorance and bigotry
towards people on the basis of ethnicity, religion and
gender; the blight of cruel and autocratic governance in
some places; and, most pervasive of all, the blight of
poverty.
The expansion of the global economy in the last
four decades has not eliminated gross poverty or even
reduced its prevalence. A sophisticated, globalized,
increasingly affluent world currently co-exists, globally
and within countries, with a marginalized underclass.
The hungry, the homeless and the destitute are
less impassioned about the physical insecurities of
terrorist repression or the damaging consequences of
military warfare. The unemployed, those who are ill
but have no health care, those who are cold but have no
proper heating, those who are old but have no social
support — for these victims, “security” means a meal,
a roof, a job, medicine, warmth and relief from poverty
in general. But those needs are just as real and
insistent, and they represent for them the most
immediate denial of their rights as human beings.
During the last decade, the process of
globalization, deregulation and privatization has swept
the world. It is incontrovertible that it has not been a
golden age for a large proportion of the world’s people:
not just for the 1.3 billion absolute poor in developing
countries whom the benefits of globalization seem to
have bypassed, but for many millions in industrial
countries also. We delude ourselves if we believe that
all those engaged in street protests, whether in Seattle,
Washington, Prague, Quebec city or Rome, are simply
anarchists.
International institutions must not only be
accountable; they must be subject to democratic
governance as well. It is becoming more widely
recognized that a new global institutional architecture
is needed to establish representative superintendence of
the global economy, directed towards enlargement of
social and economic justice worldwide and targeted to
a sharp redirection of the numbers mired in gross
poverty and deprivation.
Some of the desired progress may be possible
through existing institutions, but more radical reform
may also be required. Democratic superintendence of
the global economy has to be a central feature of the
fresh global architecture we seek to fashion during this
decade. That new global architecture must incorporate
appropriate arrangements for a start to be made in
raising global resources for global purposes in ways
that do not generate alarm. The persistence of gross
poverty, the long list of environmental abuses, the
disturbing reduction in development aid and the
vagaries of foreign private investment make a
compelling case for global revenues.
The world faces crucial choices. We have to
identify and follow a guiding principle if humanity is
to make an enlightened response to the challenges we
face. We can hardly return to the principles of a feudal
world in which military and economic strength are
concentrated in the hands of a few, while we indulge in
an illusion of order through the marginalization of the
many. In our interdependent, interconnected world, that
is no longer a credible option.
Our only way forward lies here in the United
Nations. If this institution did not exist before 11
September, we would have to create it now. We have to
be inspired by the vision that propelled the generation
of 1945 to pursue the path of collective responsibility
for peace and human progress through a regime of
22

multilateral action anchored by the United Nations. It
was coterie of Governments, in a rare moment of
collective wisdom and creativity, that settled the United
Nations Charter. It was not without flaws in its
inception, and some flaws have remained to hobble its
capacity to initiate the renaissance of which I speak.
It is within that context that the demand for the
reform of the Security Council becomes even more
urgent, since the Council’s present design and
functioning weaken its capacity to fulfil its mandate.
We must remove all existing constraints on the capacity
of the United Nations. Even as we work to improve it
and to reform it, we must proclaim the United Nations
to be the temple in which we can all worship. “We, the
people” must be made a reality to fulfil the
commitment made in their name by the Charter of
1945.
Today, our greatest hope lies in people: in people
of all races, of all genders, of all faiths; people of all
continents and oceans; people of all ages; the
“ordinary” people of the world and those who hold
themselves to be of higher station. All the world’s
people are affected by the calamities that loom; all
must be involved in turning humanity away from
gloom and in finding the light.
The Charter does not set out the principal organs
of the United Nations in a hierarchical order, but the
General Assembly is the only principal organ under the
Charter that embraces all the Members on a one
member, one vote basis. It is the symbol of the United
Nations as a universal organization in the best
democratic tradition. And so, I believe that it is within
the General Assembly that the true renaissance of the
United Nations must begin. The special value of the
General Assembly is its universality, its capacity to be
a forum in which the voice of every Member State can
be raised. It provides the opportunity for countries to
ventilate issues, to bring complaints to the floor in the
general debate and to suggest new ideas in committees.
But the assumption surely must be valid that
deliberation should inform action.
High among the changes that should mark the
renaissance of the United Nations is the revitalization
of the General Assembly as a universal forum of the
world’s States. Even with a reformed and somewhat
enlarged Security Council, many Member States with a
capacity to contribute significantly to the policies and
programmes of the United Nations and to global
governance will have to remain on the sidelines. A
General Assembly that occupies more of the stage and
reorders its work to make it more focused and more
result-oriented, will allow each of us a meaningful role
in world governance through our work in the
Assembly. It is in the interest of the world community
to have a more vigorous and effective General
Assembly which can and should play a vital
legitimating role in the United Nations, consonant with
the universality of its membership.
Here in the General Assembly, we are the
practitioners of international affairs. At the heart of the
conduct of those affairs must lie a sense of realism. I
too am conscious that the accumulated baggage of
decades cannot be shed in a single heave. That is why I
do not call for reform but advocate instead a
renaissance: a rebirth which offers the chance of facing
the twenty-first century with sound values no longer
predicated on a world of adversarial States but on an
interactive world of people that has espoused
neighbourhood values of respect for life and liberty, for
justice and equity, for tolerance and caring; values that
balance rights with responsibilities, that elevate the
democratic ethic at both the national and the global
levels.
We are a long way from that consummation,
however devoutly we may wish it. But we are
sufficiently frightened by the prospects that confront us
to recognize the need for humanity to take “the path
less travelled by”. There are enough good people in all
our societies — who together are the silent majority of
the world’s people — to ensure that by choosing this
new path we can indeed make a real difference. We
have to find a better way than the one a divided world
has been pursuing. That way has to lie through the
United Nations as an organization — but a United
Nations revitalized, its agencies repaired, reformed and
responsive to a culture of new values appropriate to our
time.
This new era of global relations demands bolder
and more ingenious approaches to confidence-building
and to development as a prerequisite for international
peace and security. An equitable framework to finance
national and global development, to fuel expansion of
international trade and to foster sustainable
development must be placed on the front burner,
whether we gather in Qatar, in Mexico or in South
Africa.
23

If the global conferences to be held in those three
places are to succeed, Member States must be guided
by full recognition that this new era of global relations
demands, as I said, more ingenious approaches to
confidence-building and to development as a
precondition for international peace and security.
In closing, I wish to take this opportunity to
congratulate Mr. Han on his assumption of the
presidency of this session of the General Assembly and
to commit Jamaica’s total support for the attainment of
our common goals in the service of all humankind.
Whatever may be our colour, culture or creed, we
belong to a single race — that is, the human race. We
occupy a single planet, which has more than enough to
enable each person and every nation to enjoy the
abundance which Mother Earth has to offer and for all
its people to dwell together in harmony.
Now more than at any time in its history, the
United Nations is the best vehicle to procure global
peace and to foster international cooperation. Let this,
the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, loudly
and clearly proclaim that the renaissance of the United
Nations has indeed begun.



"
56,2001,YUG,"﻿Let me begin by
congratulating Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election as
President of the General Assembly. Your sterling
credentials, Sir, and vast experience are a firm
guarantee that our proceedings will run smoothly and
bear fruit.
I would also like to congratulate the United
Nations and the Secretary-General on the Nobel Peace
Prize. The award is the acknowledgement of the
important role our Organization has in protecting world
peace and promoting social progress and human rights,
as well as an acknowledgement of the successful
leadership of the Secretary-General. This honour
should be strong encouragement for all of us to put
even more effort into achieving the purposes of the
United Nations.
Let me also express our deepest sympathies to the
families of the victims of yesterday’s tragic plane
crash.
The terrorist attacks in New York and Washington
on 11 September have affected not only the United
States but all of us. Once again, we were painfully
reminded that only together, with joint efforts, can we
stand up to global challenges such as terrorism.
Terrorism is a universal evil, a crime against
humanity itself. It equally affects people of every
religion, nationality and walk of life. Therefore we did
not hesitate to support fully all international actions
against terrorism. In that context, it is particularly
important to ensure the full implementation of Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) and all international
conventions against terrorism. On behalf of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, I have just signed the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism. Yugoslavia has also taken a
series of domestic measures to combat terrorism and
has coordinated its actions with other States.
Having been confronted with terrorism for quite
some time itself, Yugoslavia is well aware of how
difficult it is to fight this evil. It is not enough to
prevent terrorist attacks and to capture and punish the
perpetrators. It is even more important to deal with the
social causes of terrorism, in particular, to address
issues of poverty and the lack of opportunity. It is also
vital to strengthen democracy and respect for human
rights everywhere in the world. Poverty breeds anger,
and if not channelled into democratic political
processes, anger can easily fuel extremism.
In this regard, the experience of Yugoslavia in
dealing with terrorism in southern Serbia has shown
that it is not sufficient to combat terrorism solely with
security forces. We have therefore developed a
comprehensive plan which, in addition to security
measures, also aims at improving the economic
situation in southern Serbia and reintegrating ethnic
Albanians into the political process and State
structures, especially at the local level. We are
implementing this plan in cooperation with a number of
international organizations, and this joint effort has
proven to be successful. At this very moment, we are
successfully training a multi-ethnic police force as an
important confidence-building measure.
All this would not be possible without the victory
of democratic forces in Yugoslavia last year. This
democratic revolution showed the strong will of the
Yugoslav people to live in a democratic society based
on the rule of law, with full respect for human and
minority rights and a sustainable market economy. It
also showed their desire to live better lives in a more
prosperous society, in peace with their neighbours and
36

as a part of the European family of nations. In order to
achieve these goals, Yugoslavia has started a process of
comprehensive political and economic reforms over the
last year.
At the same time, we have to deal with several
pressing issues which are of crucial importance for the
country. Foremost among these issues is the situation
in Kosovo and Metohija, southern Serbia and the
redefinition of the Yugoslav Federation, as well as
cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal
established by the Security Council for the war crimes
committed in the former Yugoslavia. However, these
questions do not concern Yugoslavia alone; they are
also of vital political importance for the entire region
of South-East Europe. My Government has approached
all of them in a constructive way and with a desire to
find political solutions through dialogue in a
democratic environment.
Today, all countries in South-East Europe have
democratically elected Governments, and all are
striving to join European and Euro-Atlantic structures.
At the same time, our region is still burdened with the
legacy of the past 10 years and a number of
outstanding issues, the main issue of which is the
position of national minorities. The problems of the
region are interrelated and must therefore be addressed
by broad regional action and with the help of the
international community. The solutions to be achieved
should enjoy region-wide support.
I believe that the precondition for dealing with
the problems in the region is to fully respect the
territorial integrity and sovereignty of all countries. It
must be clearly said that the era of disintegration in the
Balkans has come to an end. This will enable us to
address the main problem of South-Eastern Europe —
the status of national minorities — with fewer
reservations and much more openness. Solving the
minority issues, together with more economic
cooperation and new confidence-building measures, is
the way to achieve lasting stability and prosperity in
the region. Such an approach will be fully in concert
with the wishes of all countries in the region, including
Yugoslavia, to join the European integration processes.
In that context, Yugoslavia supports the process of
stabilization and association, inaugurated by the
European Union at the Zagreb Summit last year, as
well as other regional initiatives.
Kosovo and Metohija is the most pressing and
immediate preoccupation of my Government. The
Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
fully complies with Security Council resolution 1244
(1999). This is also what we rightly expect from others
participating in its implementation and, in particular,
neighbouring States.
Unfortunately, we are not satisfied with the
situation in the field. There is no security for non-
Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija; the return of
expelled and displaced persons is difficult and slow,
and there is no progress with respect to the issue of
missing persons. Nonetheless, we signed the Common
Document with the United Nations Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), which
should provide for comprehensive cooperation in the
implementation of Security Council resolution 1244
(1999). This enabled the President of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Federal and Serbian
Republican Governments to call on the Serbs of
Kosovo and Metohija to take part in the elections. They
did so fully convinced that participation in the
elections is in the Serbs’ best interest and that
cooperation with the international community,
particularly with UNMIK and KFOR, is the key to the
solution of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija.
The elections to be held in Kosovo and Metohija
on 17 November are important indeed; yet, it is only
after the elections that I expect we will start even more
extensive cooperation. This cooperation should be
aimed at implementing Security Council resolution
1244 (1999) fully and at establishing democracy and
promoting human rights in Kosovo and Metohija, with
full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity
of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In that
connection, my delegation welcomes the presidential
statements issued by the Security Council on 5 October
and 9 November 2001.
I take this opportunity to affirm the support of the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for the efforts of the
United Nations, particularly those of the Secretary-
General, aimed at strengthening the role and place of
the world Organization in present-day international
relations.
Recalling the conclusions of the Millennium
Assembly, we expect that the General Assembly, the
main organ of the United Nations, will function more
effectively. At the same time, the Organization should
37

be more efficient in order to address the challenges
before us. The Security Council should adapt itself to
the new relations in the international community.
We attach special significance to the international
rule of law. It is of particular importance that all
international crimes be punished before national and
international courts. In that context, we firmly believe
that the International Criminal Court should start its
work as soon as possible. This is why my country has
already ratified the Statute of Rome that establishes the
Court.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that grave
challenges are before us. We have to take concerted
action to deal with them. We have to be wise in how we
act because that will determine the outlook of the
international system for many years to come.





"
56,2001,PAN,"﻿The
Republic of Panama welcomes with particular pleasure
the election of Mr. Han Seung-soo as President of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, and wishes
to assure him of our fullest cooperation in the sensitive
work with which he is entrusted. It is also a pleasure
for us to express the deep satisfaction of the
Government of Panama at the well-deserved honour of
the award of the Nobel Peace Prize jointly to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi
Annan, and to the Organization itself.
As we participate today in this forum, we are still
reeling from the impact of the terrifying terrorist acts
carried out on 11 September in New York, Washington,
D.C., and Pennsylvania. These crimes against humanity
will never be forgotten, and, as a tribute to the
thousands of innocent victims of these senseless
attacks, the United Nations must take whatever
measures are necessary to legitimize any multilateral
action that will have to be taken in future to neutralize
the threat of international terrorism.
The Republic of Panama, as a State Member of
the United Nations, fully respects the mandates issued
by the Organization, and, therefore, we are pleased to
state here unambiguously that every resource available
to us has been directed to fulfil our responsibilities in
the war against terrorism.
Similarly, we support the Security Council
Committee set up under resolution 1373 (2001),
chaired by the Ambassador of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Sir Jeremy
Greenstock. We propose to remain in communication
with him on an ongoing basis.
The Government of Panama, under the leadership
of President Mireya Moscoso, is prepared vigorously to
implement the provisions contained in all United
Nations instruments on international terrorism. To that
end, we will soon submit to our Legislative Assembly
the four United Nations instruments that have not yet
been ratified by our country, together with the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism of December 1999, which we
have just signed here. Likewise, we will ratify, as soon
as possible, the Rome Statute creating the International
Criminal Court.
In parallel with the joint actions taken against
terrorism in conformity with the many relevant United
Nations Conventions and resolutions of the General
Assembly and the Security Council, and in order to
address terrorist activities, we respectfully appeal to all
to set aside any differences that may have arisen in July
in respect of the problem of massive illegal trade in
small arms and light weapons. It is well known that the
ultimate beneficiaries of this deadly traffic are not only
rebel movements — sometimes sponsored by other
nations — but also notorious terrorist groups. That is
why Panama reiterates the position it maintained
during the Conference: that no State has the right to
promote this deadly traffic by claiming its own national
interests are at stake. This issue must be re-examined in
the light of recent events.
The Republic of Panama is particularly concerned
at the social, political and economic implications of the
illicit trade in small arms and light weapons and wishes
to declare its commitment to promoting an American
convention on this question, with a view to creating a
legal framework that will enable the countries of the
hemisphere to completely suppress this traffic and thus
strengthen regional security.
We are caught up in a vortex of bloodshed that
brings us ever closer to generalized conflagrations. The
States represented here, when we became Members of
this Organization, undertook formally to promote peace
and human rights; to meet the food, health care and
educational needs of our peoples; to preserve the
environment; and to bring about overall social,
economic and political development.
However, for this commitment to have a real
effect, we must secure the support of those States that,
due to pure fanaticism, particularly in the Middle East,
have not been able to come to terms with the purposes
and principles of the United Nations. My country
believes that the intolerance and intransigence
demonstrated in that part of the world are the result of
ancient ways of thinking and injustices that can be
easily discerned and which constitute flagrant
violations of the United Nations Charter. The Republic
4

of Panama has repeatedly urged the parties in conflict
to renounce the use of force, re-establish cooperation
on security and adopt measures to restore mutual trust,
which enable a return to the peace process based on the
norms of international law.
In recent days, the international community has
witnessed with deep sadness the intensification of
violence in that region. Because of the brutality
occurring in the Middle East, Panama considers that it
is the responsibility of the United Nations to
vigorously strengthen its mediating role in order to put
an end to the unfortunate bloodshed that has grieved
the international community for decades.
In particular, Panama calls on the Security
Council to assume a more active role in the efforts to
apply the recommendations of the Mitchell report,
which proposes using constructive dialogue and mutual
concessions to move beyond the violence. An
indispensable step is recognizing the right of the
Palestinian people to create a sovereign State and the
right of the State of Israel to live in peace and security.
We must make our best effort, employ our most
outstanding human resources and put ourselves to the
task of reconciling all humankind. The Republic of
Panama will persist in this task and will always
advocate peaceful solutions to conflicts through
dialogue and the rejection of violence as the means to
resolve internal or international disputes.
Other examples of situations that cause
unnecessary friction and that could be resolved through
dialogue are the issues of the Saharan people’s right to
self-determination, the Argentine Republic’s claim to
the Falkland Islands, and the representation of the
Republic of China on Taiwan in the United Nations
system while the internal situation of that fraternal
people is being resolved.
Panama defends human rights without reservation
and will never accept acts which violate them,
wherever the violations occur and whatever the
circumstances used to try to justify those violations.
Let us add to this very clear position of ours our
sincere commitment to the universal campaign for the
rights of the child and to the fight against HIV/AIDS,
as these are an essential part of human rights. On this
latter issue, Panama considers that the key to any future
success lies in everyone’s acceptance of their economic
and social responsibilities with respect to this terrible
disease and in developing good community planning at
the local and provincial levels to prevent the spread of
HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.
Human rights are clearly defined in the political
and civil spheres as much as in the economic, social
and cultural spheres. Since the proclamation of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10
December 1948, much progress has been made.
However, the principles proclaimed on that occasion
are being challenged by the inequalities of
globalization and financing for development, by
unpayable foreign debts and by the indiscriminate
destruction of the environment. All these factors of
extreme poverty require acts of profound solidarity on
behalf of the richer nations. We firmly believe that the
eradication of poverty and inequality will prevent the
erosion of human rights and halt the social upheavals
that generate violence and cause the loss of the
political, social and economic rights of the citizens of
the world.
The United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992,
was a tremendous effort towards sustainable world
development. The most important outcome of the
Conference was the adoption of Agenda 21, which
covers in depth the topics of poverty, hunger, disease,
illiteracy and the progressive deterioration of
ecosystems. Agenda 21 also encourages us to focus our
attention on the financial resources required to promote
sustainable development at the national level, with the
goal of creating a corresponding measurement system
for it that can be easily interpreted. This is an ongoing
and important task that we cannot neglect.
The United Nations Conference on Financing for
Development will be held in Monterrey, Mexico, in
March 2002. We believe that the Conference offers a
magnificent opportunity to reduce the abyss between
the rich countries of the North and the poor countries
of the South in both the practical and conceptual
aspects of this issue.
In the course of last month’s meetings of the
Conference’s Preparatory Committee, opinions with
substantial differences were expressed, and these must
be reconciled. As a result of these disagreements, there
have been pessimistic predictions that it will be
impossible to formulate a plan of action at Monterrey. I
believe, on the contrary, that since we already know the
objections that will be made by those who assume the
5

risks of financing, we cannot delay revising our
arguments, in order — creatively and responsibly — to
define parameters for financing for development that
are more in tune with the realities of today’s world.
The current realities are pressing and encompass,
among other things, the need to provide financing at
discounted rates to developing countries; to vigorously
attack the problem of foreign debt; to design measures
to raise the depressed prices of our raw materials and
other export products; and to agree collectively on
mechanisms to prevent financial crises.
Following this line of thought, and because we
consider it of interest to the General Assembly, we will
mention that in June of this year the Central American
countries and the United States signed a joint
declaration under the Alliance for the Sustainable
Development of Central America (ALIDES). This
alliance is a regional strategy to make the Central
American isthmus a region of peace, freedom,
democracy and development. Its general objectives
include the sustainable management of biodiversity, the
strengthening and modernization of institutional
structures, the promotion of trade and the mitigation of
natural disasters.
Specifically, ALIDES works for regional
economic integration and the region’s integration in the
international economy; the harmonization of
macroeconomic policies and the modernization of
infrastructure in the areas of energy, transportation and
telecommunications; the creation of protected
biological corridors, river basins and other areas; the
strengthening of democracy and the rule of law in the
region; the improvement of the levels of education,
health and security of the population of Central
America; and the restoration and preservation of
national values.
Central America’s desire for development has
been strengthened by the launching of the Puebla-
Panama Plan. We created for the region a mechanism
for ongoing and permanent consultation to perfect an
integral strategy for long-term development.
While we are making great efforts to mitigate the
social problems that afflict us in some regions, in the
United Nations we continue to debate structural
problems that limit to some extent the ability of many
of our countries to have an effect on the administration
of the Organization. Among the different debates
relating to United Nations reform, we would like to
refer to the one held on 30 October on agenda item 49,
entitled “Question of equitable representation on and
increase in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters”. Last year the delegation of Panama,
both at the Millennium Summit and the General
Assembly, supported the aspiration of many years to
bring about the reform of the Security Council.
We have said — and we wish to repeat today —
that we agree it must have a more equitable and more
representative composition, but in order to achieve this
fundamental objective it is indispensable that the
permanent members accept that the power structure of
1945 has ceased to exist. Now, looking at the new and
vital interdependence of all nations around the world,
we see a genuine opportunity opening before us to get
rid of the obsessions that no longer suit the structure of
our Organization.
In conclusion, we would like to restate our
conviction that, as we have seen after the horrendous
terrorist acts of 11 September, the legitimacy and
effectiveness of future Security Council actions will
depend on all Member States feeling the absence of
unilateral measures and of the usual marginalization in
decision-making on matters affecting all of us. It is in
this direction that we should guide our work.






"
56,2001,BIH,"﻿I am
grateful for the opportunity to address the General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. I would like to
extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your
well-deserved election.
I would like to join those who spoke before me in
expressing my deep condolences to the people of the
United States. The date of 11 September will be forever
inscribed in our minds and hearts as the symbol of the
most blatant affront to civilization and commonly
accepted values. Regardless of the brutality of the
terrorist attacks directed against innocent civilians,
however, they failed in the attempt to polarize the
world and to undermine the very foundations of our
societies. Those attacks were attacks against all of us,
too. We therefore fully support the approach outlined
yesterday morning by President Bush.
Yes, the fight against all kinds of terrorism must
be determined and precise. It has to target terrorists,
who must be apprehended and brought to justice. At
the same time, we have to do much more when we are
talking about quick and massive help to the innocent
civilians of Afghanistan.
I would like to use this opportunity to recall that
my country promptly and resolutely joined the
worldwide coalition against terrorism. And I am
convinced that, by adopting such a clear position, my
country is a part of the solution, rather than a part of
the problem, in this particular field. I spoke about this
more extensively in this same Hall two days ago on the
occasion of the meeting devoted to the dialogue among
civilizations.
Coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which
was treated by various kinds of fundamentalists and
radicals as a problematic and questionable Balkan
country because of its multi-ethnic and multicultural
nature, I am especially sensitive to the type of
terrorism that misuses religious feelings and, in so
doing, jeopardizes local societies and global society.
The war against terrorists is justified, but all of us
will be losers if we fail to do everything we can to help
the innocent people who are suffering today. Our
experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina teaches us that
military intervention, even when complemented by
humanitarian assistance, is not enough for a
sustainable, long-lasting solution.
At the same time, we — and when I say “we”, I
mean the international community speaking with one
voice, together with local democratic forces, regardless
of their current strength — have to have a clear vision
of a political solution, accompanied by a programme
for social and economic development, once the military
intervention is over. Only such a comprehensive
approach — military, humanitarian, political and socio-
economic — will leave no room for the terrorists to
interpret the intervention in Afghanistan as a war
against Islam or as a symbol of the clash of
civilizations.
The terrorists will lose. Without a comprehensive
approach, we might be losers, too, by the measure of
ethical and universal human values. That is why we
have to tackle these areas of future action together,
starting today.
At a time when humanity has reached for the
highest objectives but also carried out the worst deeds,
there should be no doubt that the United Nations can
fulfil its new tasks, confronting old and new
challenges, leading in the building of a prosperous
world founded no longer on force but on the rule of
law, not on a balance of power but on a balance of
cooperation.
The contribution of the international community
in achieving progress in my country, Bosnia and
17

Herzegovina, was particularly visible in the role of the
United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
the Stabilization Force, the United Nations High
Representative, the Peace Implementation Council, the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
and other members of the family of the international
community present in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We particularly recognize and value the role of
the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina
in police reform and the substantial upgrading of the
judicial system. The United Nations family of
organizations was certainly one of the key players in
the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a
multiethnic, tolerant and democratic State.
Knowing that the mandate of the United Nations
Mission in the present form will terminate by the end
of 2002, we expect the United Nations mission
activities to continue in a different form. However, we
would like to see a smooth transition without any
interruption in these extremely important activities.
The noble goals and accomplishments of our
Organization were honoured recently, and I would like
to extend sincere and heartiest congratulations to the
Secretary-General and the whole of the United Nations
for the recognition by the Nobel Peace Prize
Committee.
I would like to inform the Assembly that we have
decided to present candidature of Bosnia and
Herzegovina for a non-permanent seat in the Security
Council for the year 2010. We are convinced that by
doing so, we confirm our commitment to contributing
fully to the work of the United Nations. It would also
be a clear sign of advanced stability and normalization
of life in our country, and particularly of our
commitment to economic and democratic development.
Therefore, we hope that as early as in 10 years from
now, Bosnia and Herzegovina will succeed in
becoming a member of the most important political
body of the United Nations.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are working daily
to live up to the vision of a safer and more peaceful,
stable and self-sustaining country. Our efforts are
directed toward three main sets of priorities.
First is the rule of law, through the speedy
implementation of the latest Constitutional Court
decisions and through proper judiciary and police
actions fighting terrorism and organized crime,
combating corruption, arresting indicted war criminals
and creating a stable environment for the return of
refugees.
Second are the further building and strengthening
of the State’s institutions.
Third are economic reforms directed to the
strengthening of economic activities; establishment of
a single economic space; and setting up the conditions
for upgraded education, thus offering a choice for our
young generations to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina
and become an inseparable factor in its development
and future.
Of course, implementation of the Dayton/Paris
Peace Agreement and the continuous adjustment and
upgrading of our legal framework according to
European standards are the foundation of activities of
the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels.
Once again, I would like to express the gratitude
of my Government to the international community for
its devoted support of the enduring stability and
development of my country. We are determined to
move from the position of a patient or passive recipient
of aid from international organizations and institutions
to one of a partner in and contributor to international
efforts. We have to go through the process of being
first a recipient and then a partner in order to finally
become the owner of the changes in our country.
We are aware that responsibility for healing the
consequences of the war and post-war stagnation, and
for the removal of impediments to faster stabilization
and progress, rest primarily with the political
leadership in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The future of
Bosnia and Herzegovina is in its integration into
European and North Atlantic organizations. The
establishment of contractual relations with the
European Union through the stabilization and
association process is one of the priority strategic goals
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Further improvement of
good relations with neighbouring countries and
increased regional cooperation remain key elements for
the stability and development of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and the region.
Relations with the Republic of Croatia since the
democratic changes in January last year are improving
every day, in every sense.
As a result of the democratic changes last year in
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Bosnia and
18

Herzegovina has established full diplomatic relations
with that country, which opened the official channels of
the two countries to deal with a number of important
matters.
However, a number of issues that burdened
relations between the neighbouring countries are still
on the agenda. Some of them have already been solved
in bilateral meetings, but we are looking forward to
tackling them more actively.
Today is exactly one year since the people of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the first time in 10 years
of being driven by nationalism, gave less than 50
percent of their votes to three major ethnic parties. It
took us almost four months to establish the new,
democratic, multi-ethnic, Europe-oriented Government
that is now in place. We believe that we are on the way
to striking a proper balance between the necessary
assistance of the international community and further
decision-making by ourselves.
Finally, I can assure you today that our country
has a leadership with a clear vision and is ready to act
accordingly. For years, Bosnia and Herzegovina was
one of the world’s international and regional problems.
Today, my country is becoming one of the solutions.
With this conviction, we are looking at the important
challenges and tremendous tasks that are still ahead of
us. We must confront them without delay. I am
standing here to say we will do it.




"
56,2001,POL,"﻿We have just learned
of the crash of an American Airlines plane in New
York. We the Polish delegation, offer our heartfelt
condolences, and express our sympathy to the
Government of the United States and the Dominican
Republic and to the families of the victims of this
tragedy.
At the outset, let me offer Mr. Han my sincere
congratulations on his election to the prestigious office
of the President of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. The delegation of the Republic of Poland
extends to him its firm support in his demanding
mandate.
Let me likewise express to the former President,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, of Finland, our appreciation for his
remarkable leadership, which he brought to the fifty-
fifth session of the Assembly.
I should also like to convey to Mr. Kofi Annan,
the distinguished Secretary-General, my sincere
greetings, and to say how pleased Poland is at his
second term in that high post. May I also take this
opportunity to renew to him, and indeed to this
Organization as a whole, my Government's
congratulations on the recent Nobel Peace Prize. The
award comes as a timely token of appreciation of the
way the United Nations and the Secretary-General have
been meeting their formidable challenge.
The appalling tragedy of 11 September calls for
resolute reaction of the entire international community,
for active solidarity with the United States and for
effective counter-measures against those who sow
death, hatred and terror.
The terrorist attack of 11 September, the way it
came about and the circumstances by which it was
conditioned should be seized by the international
community as an occasion for an in-depth reassessment
of the very foundations of the international order.
Preoccupied as we are with ever-new developments
each day, we tend to be mentally incapable of
following signals that predict new trends in
international relations. We have hardly been able to
afford the time for searching reflection on, and
adjustment to, negative phenomena that, if ignored,
can, in time, become the breeding ground for upheavals
and conflicts. In this era of enormous new challenges,
it is time for creative thinking, vision and intellectual
courage.
The essence of security has changed dramatically.
In Poland's view, all aspects of security need urgent,
thorough and imaginative reassessment. In this context
particularly searching reflection must be focused on the
role of the State  an entity that operates in entirely
new circumstances in an era of dramatically increasing
integration, globalization and fragmentation. This is a
time of interdependence and multiculturalism, in which
openness, close international cooperation and
interaction should be seen as countermeasures against
diverse processes of fragmentation and disintegration,
which can lead us even further towards the nationalism,
separatism, closure and isolation that loom all around.
Fragmentation is creating instability and conflicts. And
7

the most dangerous fragmentation process of the
current era is being generated by the widening
development gap between regions and States, which
has been so well attested and documented by many
United Nations publications. In this, the role of the
United Nations is particularly fundamental and crucial.
There is no better-equipped and more universal forum
to deal with those issues.
At the Headquarters of an Organization which the
peoples of the United Nations established 56 years ago
in order to maintain international peace and security,
that axiom should be self-evident. The whole world is
trying to respond to the challenges of globalization, the
new scientific revolution, and  quite recently  the
destabilizing forces of terror. The United Nations
should find adequate answers to those challenges. This
is a time for collective and resolute action.
Perhaps as ominous as terrorism itself is the fact
that in some countries, the monstrous acts of violence
that have taken place have been met with some
sympathy on the part of those who are destitute,
deprived of any hope, and who, driven to the margins
of social life, have become frustrated and desperate.
Terrorists must never be exculpated or their
actions justified. We need to do away with the reasons
why many perceive terrorists as present-day Robin
Hoods. Though such a perception can be described as
groundless, this does not release us from our
responsibility to take a careful and courageous look at
the phenomena that are emerging in the present
international order, which tend to consolidate
inequalities and lead to various social calamities.
From the very beginning, Poland has proclaimed
itself entirely on the side of the international anti-
terrorist coalition. We are working seriously and
diligently on the implementation of Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001).
Regional undertakings can make a significant
contribution to drafting a global strategy for the
struggle against terrorism. With that in mind, last week
in Warsaw we organized a very successful international
Conference on Combating Terrorism. The Conference
was attended by representatives of 17 Central
European, Baltic and Balkan States, including 13
Presidents. The Conference also provided a direct
connection with the White House and President Bush,
who had the opportunity to talk directly with the
Conference's participants. The declaration adopted by
the Conference indicates a strong political commitment
to fight against that plague at the dawn of the twenty-
first century, in close collaboration with the United
States and the entire international community.
The plan of action adopted at that Conference
spells out concrete measures. It is significant that the
leaders of that region of Europe gave unanimous
backing to the relevant actions of the United Nations,
the European Union and other organizations.
In the course of Poland's very complicated
history, my nation has on several occasions been
betrayed by disloyal neighbours and allies and has paid
the highest price for this. Therefore we understand
better than anyone how priceless and crucial true
loyalty and alliances are. Thus we will continue to
support our friends and allies by all available means.
Our principal goal at present is to ease peoples' fears -
fears that have been imposed on them by the enemies
of mankind.
The horrible scenario in which public order and
the safety of peoples is threatened, passenger planes
hijacked and destroyed, deadly viruses spread and
water poisoned must not be repeated. We must defeat
those who participate in, or contribute to creating, such
a threat. Our approach must be a comprehensive one.
Let me make it clear: there is no room for any
selectivity, flexibility or relativism when the most
fundamental values of humankind are openly and
furiously attacked.
However, we need to reconsider our position on
how to respond to the needs of those millions who
every day suffer from hunger, disease and a lack of
clean water. For them, the same question arises every
morning  a question that sounds like the classical
phrase to be or not to be. That question is how to
survive. Extreme poverty deprives people of their
inherent dignity and human rights and of their chance
for a better tomorrow, thus pushing them to take
desperate steps.
Let the tragedy of 11 September teach all of us to
collectively combat evil. Let us do everything to ensure
that the forces of darkness never prevail.
In the course of the last few years it has been
eloquently argued, from this very rostrum, that
globalization is a very positive force which will
ultimately usher in an era of prosperity and stability
and a global society. Alas, this has not happened.
8

This calls for a new approach to international
cooperation, for a new role on the part of multilateral
institutions, and for the restoration of the primacy of
courageous political decisions and intergovernmental
accords. This also calls, on the one hand, for greater
moderation on the part of the strong and the rich, and,
on the other, for more determined endeavours on the
part of the weak and the poor, who must be convinced
that their consistent aspirations to improve their own
lot will ultimately pay off. In my opinion, the
promotion of democracy and good governance offers
one of the most important paths towards such a goal.
Poland's own experience in the past 12 years, since the
historic transformations of 1989, testifies to the merits
of that path.
It is my Government's firm view that, in the face
of the threats which will forever be symbolized by the
atrocities of 11 September, the interests of international
security would be well served by the earliest possible
signature and ratification of, or adherence to, the
multilateral conventions against terrorism which have
been elaborated under the auspices of the United
Nations. In particular, the spreading anthrax scare,
which represents but the tip of the iceberg when it
comes to the potential danger of bioterrorism, and the
spreading of fissile materials and chemical weapons are
a powerful argument for the urgent need to strengthen
and strictly enforce the Biological Weapons
Convention of 1972 and other legal instruments in this
field.
We should immediately move  to quote the
Secretary-General  from a culture of reaction to a
culture of prevention.
While imperative, the struggle against terrorism
must not obscure the necessity for the United Nations
to effectively discharge the mandate entrusted to it by
the international community  a mandate whose scope
is expanding over the years. This is not only true with
respect to the international security problems which I
have just referred to, but also concerns problems
related to socio-economic cooperation, the protection
of human rights and humanitarian issues, particularly
those concerning refugees and the protection of the
environment.
Also of major importance, in our view, is the
elaboration and adoption of a package of regulations
and commitments in respect of development aid,
indebtedness and trade. Thus I wish to emphasize the
importance of the full implementation of the set of
principles and practical measures embodied in the
Millennium Declaration. We are mindful, of course,
that the translation of that programme into practical
steps cannot be the responsibility of the United Nations
alone. It is essential for other institutions and
organizations, including financial, trade and regional
ones, to help in that effort. Above all, individual States
must become directly involved, otherwise the smooth
and timely implementation of the Millennium
Declaration could be seriously jeopardized.
The United Nations is now facing enormous and
unprecedented challenges. These challenges ñ arising
as they do at the dawn of the new millennium - mean
growing divisions and, indeed, pose a risk of
fragmentation of the international community.
My country, Poland, is ready to be an active
participant in the process of searching for a new role
for the United Nations. We have been active throughout
the entire history of the United Nations, and we want to
be active in the immediate future as well."
56,2001,NOR,"﻿First, I would like to
congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the
presidency of the General Assembly.
For more than half a century, the United Nations
has helped to settle conflicts and restore peace. We
must reinforce these efforts and focus our work.
For more than half a century, the United Nations
has worked to promote human rights and economic and
social development. We must continue to invest in
human dignity.
For more than half a century, the United Nations
has given millions of people hope for a better future.
Such hope has never been more important than it is
today.
The Nobel Peace Prize could not have been
awarded to more deserving candidates than Secretary-
General Kofi Annan and the United Nations. Let me
once again extend my heartfelt congratulations.
15

The terrorist attacks on 11 September were not
only directed at innocent people. They were directed at
the very values on which the United Nations is based.
We stand united in our condemnation of these
attacks, in our call for international cooperation to
prevent and eradicate terrorism and to bring the guilty
to justice. We will fight terrorism by all appropriate
means: political, diplomatic, legal, financial and
military.
Norway pledges its full support to the broad
global coalition against terrorism. We are part of the
Atlantic Alliance. We fully support the United States in
defending itself against international terrorism. We are
implementing the provisions of Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001) by taking concrete steps to dry
up the financial resources of terrorist networks.
The Taliban regime has refused to adhere to
mandatory Security Council decisions. It is harbouring
and supporting terrorists, in blunt contravention of
Council resolutions. The Taliban are refusing to
cooperate with the international community in our
common efforts to eradicate international terrorism.
The use of military force is therefore the only option
left.
The military operations in Afghanistan are aimed
at the terrorists and those who harbour them. They are
not aimed at innocent civilians or at Afghanistan as a
country. They are aimed at a group of extremists who
are exploiting a world religion for their own evil
purposes.
Afghanistan has suffered misrule and war for
decades. While the immediate task is to end terrorism
and provide humanitarian support to those in need, we
must work in parallel for a political solution. This is
primarily the responsibility of the Afghan people
themselves, but the international community must
assist. The United Nations must have a leading role.
Planning and preparations must start now. We strongly
support the efforts of the Secretary-General’s Special
Representative for Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi, to
help lay the foundation for a broad-based and lasting
political solution.
We must ensure that the Afghans receive
humanitarian assistance both inside Afghanistan and in
neighbouring countries. But while seeking to meet
immediate needs, we must also focus on the longer-
term assistance that will be necessary to rebuild this
war-torn society. We must improve respect for human
rights and help the Afghan people, in particular
women, who have suffered so terribly under Taliban
rule. These are issues that Norway will focus on during
its chairmanship of the Afghanistan Support Group
next year. Only through coordinated efforts can we
contribute to security and development in Afghanistan.
A year ago, peace between the Israelis and the
Palestinians appeared to be at hand. Today, the hope for
peace and security has given way to disillusion, despair
and the murder of civilians.
We are convinced that the only way out of the
current stalemate is through the full implementation of
the recommendations in the Mitchell report, which
have been endorsed by both parties and by the
international community.
First of all, there must be an immediate end to the
violence. Terrorism must be stopped. The cycle of
violent action and reaction must be broken. Political
leaders on both sides must do everything in their power
to halt the violence and reduce the tension.
Secondly, confidence-building measures must be
implemented simultaneously. Trust must be rebuilt step
by step, since without it there can be no real dialogue
or negotiation. The Mitchell report lists several steps
for restoring trust. Given the high level of hostility and
mistrust, the timing and sequence of these steps are
crucial. Decisions must be made now.
Thirdly, the parties must find a way back to the
negotiating table. A halt to the violence, the resumption
of security cooperation and steps to restore trust cannot
be sustained for long without serious negotiations to
resolve the underlying causes of the conflict.
Norway will continue to support efforts to bring
about a peaceful resolution of the conflict. As Chair of
the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee, we stand ready to
work with other donors to help restore the economic
and social infrastructure in the Palestinian areas.
The bulk of the conflicts dealt with by the
Security Council are found on the African continent.
As a member of the Security Council, Norway is
determined to do what it can to promote long-term
peace and stability in Africa. Most of the conflicts in
Africa clearly demonstrate the close links between
peace, good governance and development. The root
causes of many of these conflicts are poverty and lack
16

of development, but also violations of human rights
and disrespect for basic democratic principles.
Norway stands ready to assist in building a sound
foundation for good governance and development in
Africa. The developments in Burundi are encouraging,
although we recognize that the peace process is still
very fragile. The deployment of a multinational
security force, on the initiative of South Africa, will,
hopefully, improve the situation in Burundi. Norway is
ready to support this initiative.
The United Nations is our foremost tool for
solving global problems. We should recall that
combating terrorism has not removed any of the
challenges that were on the global agenda prior to
11 September. Nor has it become less pressing to
effectively address these challenges. We must not let
the cruelty of terrorists divert attention from the
ambitious goals we set for ourselves during the
Millennium Summit.
Meeting those objectives must remain right at the
top of our agenda, along with our common fight against
terrorism. If the United Nations is to be effective in
pursuing these tasks, we must all commit ourselves and
provide the necessary resources and financial support.
As political leaders, we must show steadfast
determination. We will have to make difficult choices
and hard decisions, sometimes with painful
consequences. But the alternative is even more pain
and suffering.
This is true in our common fight against
international terrorism. This is true in our struggle to
end poverty, eliminate infectious diseases and uphold
respect for human rights and the rule of law. This is
true if we are to make the United Nations our primary
tool for safeguarding our common security.







"
56,2001,ROU,"﻿My most sincere
congratulations go first to His Excellency Mr. Han
Seung-soo on his election as President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. His outstanding
personal qualities and the consistently valuable
contributions of his country, the Republic of Korea, to
United Nations activities are clear guarantees that the
stewardship of the current session of the General
Assembly, which started under dramatic and sorrowful
circumstances, has been entrusted to a safe pair of
hands.
I would also like to renew my heartfelt
congratulations to our Secretary-General on the well-
deserved awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize and on his
election to another term in office. Romania will
continue to support his commendable endeavours
towards reforming the Organization in a way that
should enable it to cope effectively with the challenges,
old and new, of our modern world.
The horrific terrorist attack of 11 September was
a rude awakening for all of us. It brought into focus
both the abyssal evil we have to confront and the high
value of human solidarity in the international response
to it. It also shed new light on some problems that the
international community has been facing for quite a
while and accelerated certain processes, the far-
reaching consequences of which are still not easy to
predict.
There can be no ambivalence or half measures
when it comes to condemning and effectively
combating terrorism and militant, violent fanaticism of
any kind. The tragedy that befell the United States and
the United Nations host city affected all humankind
and created a new resolve to bring to justice the
perpetrators and those who support, abet or harbour
them. We share the views of the President of the United
States, Mr. George W. Bush, that what is at stake is not
just America’s freedom but that this is the world’s
fight, civilization’s fight, the fight of all who believe in
progress and pluralism, tolerance and freedom.
Belief in those fundamental values have inspired
the noble concept of the dialogue among civilizations,
so eloquently expounded by the Secretary-General in
his address to the Assembly. Indeed, it is only through
dialogue that points of convergence can be identified
and cooperation becomes possible on matters that
acquire significance once they become the object of
shared concern.
From the very beginning. Romania joined the
international democratic community in its ongoing
campaign against evil-doers and their supporters for a
safer and freer world. The consensual view of the
Romanian nation across the political spectrum was
unequivocally expressed in Parliament’s decision to
make Romania’s air, maritime and land space available
to the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and to provide access to any other
facilities that our partners may require. This is tangible
proof of our commitment to acting as a de facto
member of the North Atlantic Alliance.
My country firmly supports the relevant
resolutions recently adopted by the General Assembly
and the Security Council, and we have already
undertaken the necessary steps to ensure their full
implementation in Romania.
Regional solidarity is also essential. At a very
recent conference on the common fight against
terrorism, held in Warsaw on 6 November, the heads of
State of Central and Eastern Europe reflected upon
their past common experiences and voiced their
determination to stand firmly united in the fight against
terror for as long as it takes. It is also appropriate to
18

highlight here the meaningful work done by the
Bucharest-based Southeast European Cooperation
Initiative Regional Crime Center for Combating
Transborder Crime, involving active inputs from 11
countries. The Center should build upon its current
activities in order to enhance its contribution to the
worldwide fight against terrorism by making good use
of existing liaison systems, intelligence-sharing and
joint task forces.
I fully agreed with Secretary-General Kofi Annan
when he recently said that we must not let the terrorist
attacks distract us from the rest of the work we have to
do. In no way do these tragic events make the broader
mission of the United Nations less relevant. Indeed, the
new focus on terrorism should not divert us from the
core business of the world Organization. The agenda of
this session is both comprehensive and substantial. We
share the view that a large portion of our work should
be devoted to seeking practical ways to implement the
broad agreement reached at the Millennium Summit
along the lines indicated in the Secretary-General’s
visionary road map report.
We support the Secretary-General in his efforts to
integrate human rights into the whole range of United
Nations activities. We encourage closer cooperation
between the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, other United Nations
agencies and mechanisms and regional structures that
have extensive expertise in this field, such as the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
whose chairmanship-in-office is currently held by
Romania.
We regard the enhancement of the United Nations
peacekeeping capability as a top priority. Recent
experience in the Balkans and elsewhere has taught us
that proper policing can be at least as important as the
use of military might in modern-day peacekeeping and
peace-building operations. That is why Romania has
decided, in addition to its previous commitments in the
area, to contribute a significant contingent of military
policemen to the international presence in Kosovo to
assist the transition from conflict to stability.
The United Nations can become a focal point for
constructive interaction with regional or subregional
structures and specialized organizations of civil society
in dealing with concrete problems ranging from
conflict prevention to peace-building and post-conflict
rehabilitation, reconstruction and sustainable
development.
Probably the greatest challenge to the
international community is still how to reduce
economic and social disparities and to achieve
sustainable growth and poverty reduction within and
between all countries through appropriate policies and
well-focused institution-building. The world’s leaders
have pledged to engage political determination,
financial resources and innovative policies to reduce
global poverty by half before the year 2015. This is
most commendable, but it may prove to be more
difficult to accomplish than originally envisaged.
The 11 September attacks have affected not only
world security but also the global economy, which in
the preceding months was already showing signs of a
slowdown. The consequences are likely to be far-
reaching and much more dangerous than those of the
1997-1998 Asian financial crisis. The volume of
international trade, which increased by almost 13 per
cent in the year 2000, may decline by as much as 3 per
cent in 2001. People in developing countries in
particular are going to be hurt again.
The United Nations has an essential part to play
in promoting further integration of the world economy
in accordance with the principles of sustainable
development. But let us face the reality: we live in a
world where the developmental gap between the centre
and the periphery, between North and South, between
rich and poor, is still wide and growing wider. The
existing mechanisms for an orderly transfer of
resources appear to have been sadly inadequate. One
would expect that the recent shock, and the renewed
sense of global solidarity that it has triggered, would
prompt us into action to address the underlying causes
of blind anger: misery and hopelessness. The war
against terrorism can be truly successful only if it also
becomes a war against poverty, illiteracy, disease and
intolerance. I trust that the collective wisdom and
goodwill of responsible politicians everywhere will be
able to produce new and effective international
mechanisms meant to combine the vision of
sustainable, environment-friendly development with
good governance and the generalized observance of
basic human rights.
We see disturbing signs that the increasing
polarization with regard to wealth creation goes hand
in hand with a deepening knowledge divide. The
19

emerging knowledge economy has scarcely heeded the
injunctions of globalization. It still appears to the eyes
of many to be self-serving and parochial. However, it is
precisely the link between economic development and
the advancement of knowledge that should give the
laggards a chance to catch up through a more rational
utilization of resources, including intellectual
resources. We hope to see a new pattern of open
networking which will benefit each country —
especially those that are less developed — as well as
the international system as a whole. Again, existing
institutions do not seem creative or flexible enough to
address this challenge. The United Nations system may
become the catalyst for concerted action in public-
private partnerships to bring the “digital dividend” into
every community and every home.
The knowledge gap is compounded by the
ubiquitous phenomenon of brain drain from the
developing to the developed world. The problem is
almost as old as the United Nations itself. How to
reverse that trend, transforming it into a “brain regain”,
is another major challenge facing us all. To put it
simply, what we have here is a steady, not-so-hidden
flow of subsidies from the poorer nations to the richer
ones. After all, most of an education budget comes out
of the taxpayer’s pocket. Banish the thought of
regarding the individual as the property of the all-
powerful State: that notion is dead and gone. But it
may make sense to start thinking of some sort of
legally binding international instruments built on a
broader interpretation of the concept of intellectual
property to ensure a fairer distribution of the benefits
of knowledge.
The European Union has recently regulated the
transfer of players between soccer clubs. What about a
similar contractual arrangement between, say,
“Polytechnic University X Club” and “Microsoft
Club”? Some experimental domestic schemes have
worked well in linking industry to higher learning by
resorting to market mechanisms. Why should we not
consider international intellectual partnerships,
mutually beneficial for countries having advanced
technologies and infrastructure and those generating
creative human energies?
Romania supports the strengthening of the United
Nations through comprehensive institutional reforms
on the basis of the set of proposals now before us. As
the Secretary-General rightly noted, the United Nations
should turn from a culture of reaction to one of
prevention, aiming at the root causes of the prevailing
negative phenomena. We look forward to an
increasingly effective General Assembly regaining its
central position in the United Nations family, as called
for in the Millennium Declaration.
Experience shows that enhanced regional
cooperation can be both the engine and the result of
globalization. In a regional format, States can
implement innovative strategies for better access to
resources and markets. Regional organizations are
poised to become a significant factor in the global
community. Regional cooperation makes it possible to
capitalize on the advantages of globalization while
reducing its risks.
A set of policies can be successful only if it relies
consistently on the fundamental aspiration of ordinary
people to a peaceful and decent life. The current
unprecedented level of knowledge will, I am confident,
enable us to find the requisite resources, both in
ourselves and in society, for greater tolerance, mutual
respect and constructive dialogue, as opposed to the
primitive inclination to hatred and intolerance.
It is incumbent on the United Nations, the only
international organization of universal vocation, to
identify within itself the resources for the resolution of
problems of global concern. The United Nations should
keep working tenaciously to renew its structures and
improve its operational performance as we advance
into the new millennium. Romania is ready and willing
to add its contribution to that effort.




"
56,2001,CPV,"﻿Allow me to
join the delegations that preceded me in congratulating
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to preside over the
proceedings of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly, being held at an especially complicated
moment in international life. His long and brilliant
career as an eminent diplomat and distinguished
statesman in his country assures us that his term as
President of the Assembly will be a productive one, as
has been clearly evident since this session was
convened. I assure him that he can count on the full
cooperation of the delegation of Cape Verde.
To his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland,
I wish to express our recognition of the skill and
efficiency with which he managed the major global
issues that came before this lofty forum during the
previous session, particularly during the Millennium
Summit.
My delegation is also pleased with the re-election
of Mr. Kofi Annan as Secretary-General of the United
Nations. The unanimity of his re-election reflects the
tremendous prestige he has gained in the international
community because of his vision, as well as the trust
placed in him to pursue the reforms under way and to
consolidate the prestige of the United Nations.
Like the delegations that preceded me, I also wish
to take this opportunity to reiterate my congratulations
to the United Nations and its Secretary-General as joint
recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize, an award that
reinforces their moral authority, so necessary in these
turbulent times. This distinction, both well-deserved
and heartening, helps emphasize the importance of the
29

work of our Organization, under the enlightened
guidance of Mr. Annan, in fostering an international
atmosphere conducive to a more just, tolerant and
mutually supportive world.
This is a gigantic and complex task, undertaken
in the midst of enormous difficulties and risks and
continually posing new challenges to our collective
mind as we search for solutions to large and ever-
growing problems that humanity must solve.
Now, when international peace and security are
seriously threatened, that recent honour not only
constitutes well-deserved recognition of a high degree
of dedication to the cause of peace and the prevention
and resolution of conflicts; it also bears a message of
hope that the shining ideals of justice, democracy,
human rights and development for all will shape the
entire world to the benefit of future generations.
We in our country understand and properly
appreciate the role and the importance of the United
Nations. It was partly due to the persistent and
unconditional support of the United Nations that our
struggle for national liberation culminated in success,
with the proclamation of our independence. It was
certainly due to the support of the United Nations and
its specialized agencies that Cape Verde has been able
to take important steps on the road to development and
show encouraging signs of progress, year after year, as
documented in the Human Development Reports of the
United Nations Development Programme.
The tragedy that recently struck the homeland of
the United States of America, causing the loss of
thousands of innocent lives and destroying one of the
most prestigious landmarks in this city, can only be the
object of our most vehement and total condemnation.
The United States is home to the largest overseas
Cape Verdean community. That part of our diaspora has
also felt violated by the barbarous attacks of 11
September, and along with them, my country and,
indeed, all Cape Verdeans share in the mourning and
the distress experienced by the American people and
families of so many other nationalities.
Cape Verde has stood ready from the outset to
support actions intended to combat terrorism, in the
context of a broad international coalition under the
auspices of the United Nations. Therefore, my
Government is committed to implementing Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) to combat this scourge.
Important steps have already been taken, particularly
regarding the endorsement of international anti-
terrorism instruments.
We believe that all States have a moral and
collective obligation to fight the perversion of the
human spirit represented by this phenomenon. The
seriousness and the scope of the 11 September terrorist
acts show that, from now on, terrorism must be
confronted resolutely, with appropriate responses and
preventive action, in order to stem the criminal
violence that masquerades as being prompted by
political or religious motivations.
No country is safe from similar attacks or from
attempts to use its own territory for the perpetration of
terrorist acts. Therefore, any strategy designed to
permanently eliminate this dangerous threat to
international peace and stability must be a common
one, with broad participation, in which the United
Nations plays a crucial role.
In participating in the global effort to eliminate
terrorism, the developing countries are, once again, at a
serious disadvantage. On the one hand, their scarcity of
resources and their lack of sophisticated means of
detection and prevention make them more vulnerable
to infiltration by terrorist organizations and to actions
launched within their own borders. On the other hand,
when they attempt to respond to demands from the
international community, they are forced to mobilize
resources that would otherwise be dedicated to their
economic and social development and to meeting the
basic needs of their peoples.
Added to this is the fact that, as was emphasized
some days ago by the Secretary-General, the poorer
economies are the ones that will pay most dearly for
the direct consequences of the terrorist attacks on the
world economy. My own country, which depends
heavily on tourism revenues, is already feeling the
repercussions of the worldwide crisis in the
transportation and hospitality industries.
There is therefore a critical need for the
international community to effectively help the
developing countries, particularly the least developed
among them, to bear the added burden that the battle
against terrorism is placing on their economies. The
industrialized countries must display increased
solidarity and generosity in assisting developing
countries, since the effort that developing countries
have agreed to make and the sacrifices imposed on
30

their populations will also benefit the industrialized
nations.
A little more than a year ago, the Millennium
Summit was held in this Hall. It drew approximately
150 heads of State or Government. The dialogue was
active and innovative to an extent unprecedented in the
history of the Organization. A tremendous variety of
sectors of civil society participated directly. Not only
did the Summit provide a succinct overview of the
activities of the United Nations since its founding, it
also constituted a unique opportunity to present an
integrated picture of the strategic objectives for the
twenty-first century, thereby opening new avenues for
addressing the challenges of globalization.
The conclusions of the Summit rekindled the
flame of hope among the peoples of the world, in
particular among those who believe that it is possible
to find effective ways of giving all countries real
opportunities for development by improving their
institutional and productive infrastructure and by
creating an international atmosphere conducive to
providing them with access to the means, both public
and private, to fund their development. The drafting of
the road map towards the implementation of the United
Nations Millennium Declaration (A/56/326) gives the
international community a powerful tool for joining
forces in the implementation of the major policy lines
adopted at the Summit.
Important events have taken place since the
Millennium Summit. Of particular interest were the
Third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, the special session of the
General Assembly on HIV/AIDS and the Durban
World Conference Against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance.
Now, we are preparing to hold, in the near future, the
International Conference on Financing for
Development, a special Assembly session on children,
and the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable
Development.
The specific manner in which those issues affect
the African continent, which is home to the great
majority of the least developed countries, has certainly
helped accelerate the decision-making processes with
regard to regional integration, leading to important
steps that may open the way to a more promising
future, despite the clouds hanging over the
international scene.
As we know, a complicated combination of
endogenous and exogenous phenomena has left the
African continent feeling increasingly marginalized.
The pace of economic growth has not been able to
reduce poverty significantly. Diseases such as malaria
and AIDS continue to cut lives short at a frightening
rate. Several countries are the scene of instability;
many of them are engaged in armed conflicts and are
experiencing terrorist activities that kill thousands of
innocents, systematically destroy property, disrupt the
operations of Governments and displace population
groups. The scanty positive results from the many
plans and initiatives conceived and implemented to
deal with the serious problems Africa has faced over
the years have resulted in well known and widespread
dissatisfaction, both in the international community
and among African leaders.
Yet, despite the rather discouraging international
climate, Africa has taken important steps that may open
the way to a more promising future. With a view to
creating the instruments and mobilizing the will to face
up to an increasingly complex global situation, African
leaders proclaimed the African Union with a new
vision for our continent. Moreover, they adopted the
New Initiative for Africa, recently designated as the
New Partnership for the Development of Africa, under
which Africans assume full responsibility for
eradicating poverty and putting their countries on the
path of economic growth and development at the same
time as they offer a partnership that is mutually
beneficial to the international community in meeting
the challenges of the new millennium.
The adoption of those two instruments and the
firm commitment to promote transparent stewardship
will surely open up new prospects for the establishment
of peace, stability, democracy and development that
can lead the continent to occupy the prominent place in
the global economy that is justified by its immense
potential.
Doubtless, there is a long road to travel before we
achieve political integration based on democratic
institutions and grounded in popular participation,
good governance and action aimed at the promotion of
sustainable development on the economic, social and
cultural levels. But we believe that, with the emergence
of new leadership dedicated to economic rebirth, with
the consolidation of democracy and good governance
and with the anticipated support of the international
31

community, conditions will be present for a
fundamental and historic turnaround in Africa.
Two of the most critical problems faced by the
Organization and by the African continent, whose
solution cannot be postponed, now loom larger because
of their interconnection and because of their bottleneck
effect. I refer to poverty and armed conflicts. All
available data reinforce our apprehensions about the
success of the battle against poverty in the world. This
makes it necessary to adopt a strategy to win that war,
since attaining the objective of a 50 per cent reduction
in the number of persons living in extreme poverty by
2015 appears ever more problematic. Without measures
that can effectively reverse the process of socio-
economic degradation and, especially, without political
will on the part of the international community as a
whole, that goal of the Millennium Summit cannot be
achieved.
It is an undisputed fact that, as a rule, conflicts
occur in countries that are marked by poverty. This
cause-and-effect relationship has become a vicious
circle that cannot be terminated without efficient
coordination between the preventive diplomacy and
social action of the United Nations on the one hand and
more effective engagement by the industrialized
countries on the other.
Despite the efforts of the international
community, the United Nations and the Secretary-
General towards peace and stabilization in international
relations and towards democracy and human rights,
certain regions of the world continue to be the scene of
armed conflicts that threaten to spread and endanger
peace and stability in those regions.
The terrorist acts of 11 September have added a
new measure of instability, provoking an anti-terrorist
military intervention in Afghanistan whose duration
and consequences are difficult to assess.
The impasse in the search for a lasting solution to
the Palestine question, which is primarily a result of
the intransigence of Israel and the cycle of violence
that has been set in motion, has created one of the most
dangerous focal points of tension and a threat to world
peace. The implementation of the Oslo Agreement
must be resumed. Violence must be brought to an end
and the internationally recognized rights of the
Palestinians must be respected, including their right to
their own State, while guaranteeing the Israeli people
the right to live in peace in their country within
internationally recognized borders.
Africa, today the scene of the greatest number of
armed conflicts, has taken some positive steps in the
direction of peace, with the active involvement of the
United Nations, the Organization of African Unity,
many friendly countries and a number of multilateral
actors, non-governmental organizations and elements
of civil society. However the persistence of acts of
violence, namely the perpetration of criminal acts
against civilian targets, bears evidence that the road to
political and social stabilization leading in turn to the
restoration of peace is still long and difficult.
In Angola, for example, we have seen fresh
outbreaks of armed action by UNITA, which continues
to spread death and destruction. The Security Council
once again strongly condemned the actions of the rebel
movement, while maintaining its sanctions against that
organization. But it is vital that all countries cooperate
without reservation by denying UNITA the means to
carry out its criminal actions, so that it can be
persuaded to lay down its weapons and fully abide by
the Lusaka Agreement.
Cape Verde is pleased at the success represented
by the transition of East Timor towards independence,
a process that constitutes a remarkable and exemplary
success achieved by our Organization and particularly
by the United Nations Transitional Administration in
East Timor. From the very outset and in the most
difficult moments, the Cape Verdean Government and
people have always been on the side of the people of
East Timor in their struggle for independence. We will
celebrate this occasion together on 20 May 2002, when
East Timor takes its destiny into its own hands and
joins our great family here in the United Nations.
I conclude by expressing the hope that the
outcome of this session may make an effective
contribution to a better world, a more just and mutually
supportive world of peace and cooperation and,
especially, a world of tolerance and concord.


"
56,2001,DNK,"﻿The Danish Government
associates itself with the statement made by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belgium on behalf of
the European Union.
On 11 September a brutal blow was delivered to
the people of the United States of America. At the
same time, it was a strike against the foundations of the
United Nations and against its mission to secure peace
and prosperity for mankind in a spirit of collaboration
and shared values. Extremists have seen fit to take the
lives of thousands of innocent people to press their
message. The Danish people have reacted with outrage
and sorrow. We strongly condemn the criminal and
cowardly act; our thoughts and our compassion are
with the victims, their families and their friends.
This year the Nobel Peace Prize went to the
Secretary-General and to the United Nations. May I
congratulate both the Secretary-General and the United
Nations and its staff. The choice could not have been
better or the timing more acute.
The horrific terrorist attack on the United States
changed the agenda of the General Assembly. From the
outset, the international community has demonstrated
its resolve to confront the menace of terrorism. The
General Assembly and the Security Council have
passed resolutions unanimously condemning in the
strongest terms the terrorist attacks, and countries and
other international organizations have followed with a
host of other initiatives to that end. The international
community has stood up to the challenge united.
Denmark welcomes the broad coalition of
countries that has rallied behind the United States
response to the terrorist attacks in order to effectively
bring to justice the perpetrators, organizers and
sponsors of international terrorism.
By acting together, by acting resolutely, by
redoubling our efforts, we will stop the terror. At the
international level, we need the United Nations to
provide the norms and the international legal
framework required to define and criminalize acts of
terror. The United Nations has already put important
parts of the legal machinery in place with the 12
existing conventions aimed at combating specific forms
of terror. Furthermore, work is well under way towards
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
At the national level, countries must urgently take
concrete steps to implement Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001). States must have national
legislation in place in order to prosecute persons
supporting or committing acts of terrorism. At the same
time, countries must be ready to take steps to preclude
in all possible ways the operation and financing of
terrorist networks within their territories. All countries
should accede to and enforce the 12 conventions
against international terrorism and should ensure
prompt follow-up of Security Council resolution 1373
(2001).
Three weeks ago, the Danish Government
submitted a draft bill on national follow-up in our
Parliament, and I can assure the Assembly that
Denmark will do its utmost to cooperate with the
Counter-Terrorism Committee established pursuant to
resolution 1373 (2001).
These measures form part of our overall efforts to
create a better world, in which human dignity is
guaranteed and human rights and fundamental
freedoms are fully respected. Indeed, recent events
underscore further the need to make the world a better
place, in particular for those vast groups of people who
live in poverty. For poor people who see no possibility
of improving their economic and social standing,
turning to extremist religious and ideological views
and networks may be tempting. We need to secure real
political, economic and social opportunities for the
world’s poor and disadvantaged.
The goals identified by world leaders during the
Millennium Summit give our work direction in the
decades to come.
35

Armed conflicts cause inconceivable human
suffering and material destruction and are often the
main obstacles to development. An effective response
to present-day conflicts requires a long-term political
commitment from a united international community in
the form of a diplomatic, political, economic, military
and civil engagement. The United Nations is the
international body vested with a universal mandate to
secure support for conflict prevention. Often, it is also
the only body capable of legitimate conflict
management. Thus many people around the world are
dependent on the effective and prompt reaction of the
United Nations.
Fortunately, we have in recent years witnessed
quite a number of successful United Nations
operations. Let me single out three examples, in three
different parts of the world.
First, in East Timor the United Nations presence
has furthered political progress towards the building of
a new nation State, set for May next year.
Secondly, the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia
and Eritrea has demonstrated the readiness of the
international community to resolve conflicts and has
strengthened the credibility of United Nations
peacekeeping in Africa. That Mission also marked the
first and successful deployment of the Multinational
United Nations Stand-by Forces High Readiness
Brigade (SHIRBRIG).
Thirdly, the day after tomorrow is an important
milestone for the United Nations Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo and for the people
of Kosovo. Hopefully, the latter will participate in
great numbers in the elections. The Danish
Government has noted with satisfaction that both the
Serbian and the Yugoslav Governments have endorsed
Kosovo Serb participation in the elections.
However, other conflicts, not least in Africa,
continue to cause tremendous suffering to the people
affected and to challenge the international community.
The prevention and management of violent conflicts
have therefore become an integral part of Denmark’s
comprehensive engagement in developing countries.
The United Nations has a unique role to play in
helping Afghanistan to rebuild itself and to re-enter the
international community. Denmark strongly supports
the work of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, Ambassador Brahimi. We are ready
to contribute further to the ongoing relief and
humanitarian efforts, as well as to the immense task
that lies ahead: reconstructing Afghanistan.
A conflict of particular concern is that in the
Middle East, which threatens to escalate beyond
control. The Mitchell report and the Tenet Plan still
provide important windows of opportunity. The United
Nations, the European Union, the United States and
neighbouring States must redouble their efforts to get
the parties to take immediate action to stop the
violence and to create the atmosphere necessary to
restart negotiations.
The Millennium development goals provide the
framework for each and every country to act in a
concerted fashion on a range of key development
challenges.
In this connection, I should like to refer to the
Secretary-General’s road map for the implementation
of the Millennium Summit Declaration, in which he
stated that we have just emerged from an era of
commitment and stressed that we must now enter an
era of implementation. This timely reminder has our
full support.
The last 10 years have seen more countries than
ever before commit themselves to a democratic and
accountable political system. This trend is encouraging.
Open societies committed to democracy are more
likely to respect the rule of law, human rights and
fundamental freedoms and to foster accountable
governments. National responsibilities for
development, as expressed through good governance
and the promotion of human rights and democracy, are
key to the peaceful settlement of conflicts and essential
tools for economic development. The New Partnership
for Africa’s Development is an encouraging step in this
direction.
In building on these positive trends, we must go
even further. We must take concerted steps forward on
a whole range of key issues, from security, human
rights and trade to development.
In this regard, our planning prior to 11 September
is now showing unexpected rewards. The World Trade
Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Doha,
the International Conference on Financing for
Development in Monterrey, and the World Summit on
Sustainable Development in Johannesburg are all part
of the same, global process. They are a unique
36

opportunity for us to show that multilateral cooperation
in the economic field can make a difference and that
we can achieve globalization with a human face.
Our primary target is clearly to eradicate poverty.
This objective should be at the heart of the
international effort in the coming weeks and months.
We need a “Global Deal” that encompasses all human
beings, with the aim of achieving long-term sustainable
development, based on global coherence between
economic, social and environmental policies.
Thus, we need partnerships between developed
and developing countries; between all development
actors, including the wider United Nations family,
comprising the WTO, the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and drawing upon
civil society and the private sector. All partners need to
be on board to achieve a balance between national,
international and systemic endeavours.
The Financing for Development Conference in
Mexico, to be held in March 2002, is a first and
important opportunity to demonstrate our new resolve
on development. We could leave Monterrey with
important elements of a global framework that would
help us pull an unprecedented number of people out of
poverty over the coming 15 years. The human and
security benefits at stake are compelling.
We face a great responsibility in the days, weeks
and months ahead. Both developed and developing
countries need to set their priorities straight in order to
strike this Global Deal. In that sense, a global
commitment to realizing the national potential for
development of the developing countries should be
met, in the spirit of partnership, by the developed
countries, with full support for reaching these goals.
We also reiterate the call on the industrialized
countries to grant more generous development
assistance and to increase their official development
assistance so that, as a minimum, it reaches the
established United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of
gross domestic product that is necessary to achieve the
Millennium goals.
Recent events have demonstrated that
international cooperation is indispensable. The United
Nations is the right forum for dealing with many of
these challenges. Let us equip the Organization to meet
them effectively. By closing a Global Deal, we can take
development forward on the broad front.




"
56,2001,ZAF,"﻿Please accept my
congratulations, Mr. President, on your assumption of
the stewardship of this important Assembly.
11

We also wish to congratulate your predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the skilful manner in which he
guided the work of the Millennium Assembly of the
United Nations.
Allow me also to salute the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, on being elected to a second term and,
together with the United Nations, being awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize for 2001. This is because of the
tireless work of both the Secretary-General and the
United Nations to realize the ideal that we all cherish: a
world in which all people can live in peace, security,
freedom, equality and justice.
As has already been noted and as we all know,
this general debate has begun later than usual. The
reason for this is that two months ago, the forces of
terror struck at this city, New York — the Headquarters
of this Organization — and Washington, D.C., the
capital city of the United States of America.
It is proper that we take advantage of this
occasion once more to convey our condolences and
deepest sympathy to the people and the Government of
the United States for the immense loss of life and
property imposed on them through a callous act of
murder. We extend the same sympathy to all other
peoples who lost citizens as a result of the colossal
outrage of 11 September. We speak here about the
terrible tragedy of 11 September on behalf of our
Government and the people of South Africa. We speak
also on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and the
Commonwealth.
There can be no doubt but that the peoples of the
world have to unite in action to defeat terrorism. There
can be no hesitation among any of us in the resolve to
work together to ensure that those responsible for the
heinous actions of September 11 are brought to justice.
This is so not only because many nations lost
their citizens on that terrible day, important as that is. It
is so, because terrorism has demonstrated that it has no
respect for borders. It has shown in a very graphic,
tragic and painful manner, as it did also in Kenya and
Tanzania, that our very humanity renders all of us,
without exception, potential targets of cold-blooded
murder.
Where we might have used the concept of a
global village loosely in the past, on 11 September
terrorism taught us the abiding lesson that we do
indeed belong to a global village. None within this
village will be safe unless all the villagers act together
to secure and guarantee that safety. All must act to
promote the safety and security of one and all, on the
basis of a shared responsibility born of a shared danger.
Accordingly, we have no choice but to get
together in the village square to agree on the threat that
confronts us. Together, in that village square, we have
to determine what we do about this commonly defined
threat. This is the ineluctable conclusion we must draw
from the terrorist attacks of 11 September.
To guarantee world peace and security in the light
of the threat posed by terrorism requires that this
Organization, the United Nations, must discharge its
responsibility to unite the peoples of the world to adopt
an international convention against terrorism.
Necessarily, all of us must experience a shared
sense of ownership of this convention, precisely
because it would not be merely a statement of
principles, but a set of injunctions and prescriptions
that will be binding on all of us as States. Thus should
each one of us be ready to integrate our respective
sovereignties within a global human sovereignty,
defined and governed by all of us, with none treated as
superior or inferior.
The challenge to unite the peoples of the world to
fight the common threat of terrorism brings to the fore
the need to speed up the transformation of the United
Nations so that it is able to respond to the global
challenges we face together, in an equitable manner.
This means that it needs to be efficient, effective and
responsive to the needs of humanity as a whole.
11 September emphasized the point that, even as
the democratic system of government is being
consolidated throughout the world, even as we all work
to sustain the possibility of a serious and meaningful
global dialogue, there are some who are prepared to
resort to force in pursuit of their goals. Clearly, there
must be a response. But what should that response be?
Immediately, it is correct that we must achieve
global security cooperation so that the perpetrators of
the 11 September acts of terrorism are apprehended and
punished. Correctly, the Government of the United
States has emphasized that all action that is carried out
must be clearly targeted against the terrorists. It has
stated that such actions, including military actions,
should not degenerate into collective punishment
against any people on any grounds whatsoever,
12

including those of religion, race or ethnicity.
Accordingly, it is indeed necessary that humanitarian
assistance be extended to the people of Afghanistan.
We fully agree with that approach. The United States
Government has also said that these actions should be
of the shortest duration possible, consistent with the
objective that must be achieved. Again, we agree with
this without reservation.
The call has gone out that all Governments and
countries should contribute whatever they can to ensure
that the common efforts to find and punish the
terrorists responsible for 11 September are met with
their just results. We have responded positively to this
call because it is timely, correct and just.
All these are important elements of what has to
be done to respond to those who committed the mass
murders of 11 September. But they also indicate the
way forward as we consider the rules that should guide
us as we confront the threat of terrorism over the
longer term and beyond the critically important
operations and activities focused on the events of 11
September. They put the matter firmly on our common
agenda: We must also achieve global cooperation for
the speedy resolution of conflict situations everywhere
in the world.
In this regard, it is clear that the situation in the
Middle East cries out for an urgent and lasting solution.
In this context, we might recall the words of the Irish
poet, William Butler Yeats, when he said “too long a
sacrifice can make a stone of the heart”. The sacrifice
of the Palestinian people should not be allowed to drag
on any longer. Whatever these long-suffering people
might themselves think and feel, it is clear that there
are some in the world who will justify their destructive
rage by claiming to be front-line fighters for the
legitimate rights of the Palestinian people.
Beyond this, we must act together to determine
the issues that drive people to resort to force and agree
on what we should do to eliminate those issues. At the
same time, we must make the point patently clear that
such determination does not in any way constitute an
attempt to justify terrorism. Together, we must take the
firm position that no circumstances whatsoever can
ever justify resort to terrorism.
The need to realize together the goal of
determining the matters that make for peace once again
underlines the need for properly representative
international institutions to build the necessary global
consensus. It would seem obvious that the fundamental
source of conflict in the world today is the socio-
economic deprivation of billions of people across the
globe, coexisting side by side with islands of enormous
wealth and prosperity within and among countries. This
necessarily breeds a deep sense of injustice, social
alienation and despair and a willingness to sacrifice
their lives among those who feel they have nothing to
lose and everything to gain, regardless of the form of
action to which they resort.
As the Durban World Conference concluded,
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance remain a critical part of the practices that
serve to alienate billions of people and contribute to
mutual antagonisms among human beings. The
international community should spare no effort to
ensure that this affront to human dignity is totally
eradicated.
Last year, we convened in this very Hall in the
historic Millennium Summit. Solemnly, and with
serious intent, we adopted the Millennium Declaration.
The heavy and urgent obligation we now face is to
implement the programme of action spelt out in that
Declaration. This constitutes and must constitute the
decisive front of struggle against terrorism.
Africa, for its part, has developed a New
Partnership for Africa’s Development, which is a
product of the consciousness among the African people
that they themselves hold the key to the continent’s
development, security and stability. Africans across the
continent have arrived at the correct determination that
human rights, democracy, peace, stability and justice
are the fundamental building blocks for a prosperous
continent. Concomitantly, African countries are taking
measures, jointly and severally, to improve the
conditions for much-needed investment, economic
renewal and development. Naturally, the United
Nations has a pivotal role to play in this regard.
As we meet here, members of the World Trade
Organization are engaged in critical negotiations in
Doha, Qatar, hopefully to agree to a new equitable
trading relationship that is fair and just. It is imperative
that there be a non-discriminatory and equitable trading
system that promotes sustainable development.
Soon, ministers of health, the World Health
Organization and others concerned will be finalizing
the details relating to the global health fund to deal
13

with the major communicable diseases, including
malaria, tuberculosis and AIDS.
The International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held next March in Mexico, will
cover a range of pertinent issues, such as debt relief,
official development assistance and foreign direct
investment. As we all know, substantial capital flows
into the developing countries are critical in the struggle
to defeat poverty and underdevelopment.
All these constitute vital component parts of what
must inform the outcome of the Johannesburg World
Summit on Sustainable Development in September
next year. We are confident that the Summit will reach
positive conclusions that will include firm global,
regional and national commitments to the elaboration,
integration and implementation of economically
efficient, socially responsible and environmentally
sound development policies.
There is no doubt that our global village has the
resources and capacity to meet the needs of all its
citizens. What is needed is the collective will of the
international community to act decisively to meet this
challenge, inspired by a sense of human solidarity.
Peace and security for all, freedom and democracy for
all, prosperity for all and genuine equality in conditions
of diversity must surely be the outcomes towards which
the United Nations and all of us must strive. Our
actions must affirm the seriousness of our intent.




"
56,2001,TUR,"﻿This meeting is being held at
a most difficult hour. The terrorist attacks carried out in
New York and Washington, D.C., cast a long shadow
over this session of the General Assembly. But we must
stand united, drawing the right conclusions from this
catastrophe. The date of 11 September has made it
clear that terrorism is now humankind’s number-one
enemy, and that it must be addressed with the utmost
seriousness and determination.
We share the American nation’s grief. We
reiterate our full support to the United States
Administration in its efforts to track down those
responsible and to bring them to justice. As a country
that has lost so many of its citizens to terrorism,
Turkey deeply feels the grief of this tragic event.
To combat terrorism efficiently and to develop a
strong coalition of United Nations Members against
terrorism, certain principles should guide our collective
effort. First, terrorism does not have a religion or a
geography, and there can be no justification for
terrorist acts under any circumstances. Secondly, the
use of double standards is the main obstacle to the fight
against terrorism. Thirdly, we have to be conscious of
the fact that terrorism is a global phenomenon.
No ideal, no cause and no end can justify
terrorism. We should avoid spurious justifications for
deliberate killing. To identify terrorism with any
religion is a sacrilege against all religions. We strongly
condemn those who couple the name of a religion with
a definition of terrorism or terrorists. To fight this
dangerous trend, we fully support all initiatives aimed
at dispelling these erroneous approaches.
We commend the ongoing mutual efforts of the
United Nations, as well as several other initiatives. In
this context, Turkey has proposed an informal forum
between members of, and aspirants to, the European
Union and the Organization of the Islamic Conference
(OIC) to discuss, from a political perspective, issues
pertaining to harmony among civilizations. We have
the initial support of the relevant organizations and of
several countries. We hope to hold this conference by
February 2002.
9

Terrorism does not have a geography. The same
terrorism manifests itself in different countries all over
the world, both in the West and in the East. To be
serious and effective, the anti-terrorist struggle has to
be all-encompassing and deal with all terrorist centres,
activities and logistics. It should address all countries
that harbour and tolerate terrorism or that are
indifferent to terrorist groups that incite or actively
plan, finance or command terrorist operations executed
in another country.
Being drawn into the trap of double standards in
defining or in dealing with terrorism inherently
provides support for terrorism. Unfortunately, we have
been witnessing several cases of double standards. I
will try to give some views on this particular subject.
There is an unfortunate de facto distinction made
in the conceptual approaches of several countries
between “bad” terrorists, who work against a particular
country, and tolerated terrorists, who, while enjoying
safe haven in the same country, incite, plan, finance
and sometimes command terrorist acts in another. My
country, as well as several others, has been victim of
this double-standard approach. Groups implanted in
foreign countries openly advocate the use of terrorist
means under all sorts of pretexts. Their activities and
messages — which call for violence, and sometimes
for assassination — are freely propagated and are
sometimes transmitted through the authorized media in
their host countries. In short, acts and calls that would
draw an immediate reaction if they were the acts and
calls of indigenous terrorists targeting their own
country are ignored and tolerated when they emanate
from guest terrorists targeting their country of origin.
This unfortunate distinction between terrorists that hurt
others but not us and the prevailing double standards
have to be overcome if we are serious about fighting
terrorists.
Terrorism is a global phenomenon that crosses
borders, and the fight against it requires effective
international cooperation. Security Council resolution
1373 (2001) in particular provides a clear road map
regarding the steps to be taken. We hope that all
Member States will fully comply with this
groundbreaking resolution. The establishment of the
Counter-Terrorism Committee to monitor
implementation of resolution 1373 (2001) is a major
development.
We welcome the joint declarations of 14 and 21
September 2001 by the European Union. Turkey
aligned itself with both, and we expect their prompt
and resolute implementation. The European Union is in
the process of identifying terrorist organizations and
their support networks. The list of terrorist
organizations to be drawn up by the European Union
must not be restricted only to the geographical area of
its members. It should definitely include those groups
that finance, plan and command terrorist activities in
other countries.
There is a drastic need for vigilance and further
cooperation between the relevant authorities, namely,
the justice and interior ministries of all countries. A
drastic change in attitude is imperative.
In order for it to be credible and effective, the
anti-terror struggle has to be comprehensive and deal
with all terrorist centres. It is also incumbent upon all
United Nations Member States to adopt the existing
international legislation and to review national laws
accordingly. International efforts to combat terrorism
cannot be fully effective in the absence of a global
convention in this field.
The draft comprehensive convention on
international terrorism now under discussion in the
working group established by the Sixth Committee
seems to be our best chance to address this
shortcoming. Although all participants have displayed
remarkable flexibility, the working group has failed to
resolve two central and interrelated issues: the
definition of a terrorist offence and exclusions from the
scope of the convention. I wish to take this opportunity
to call upon all States to make an additional effort
towards finalizing the convention.
In combating terrorism, we cannot ignore the fact
that this scourge feeds on deteriorating social,
economic and political conditions. Illiteracy,
destitution, bigotry, racism, social and political
injustice and similar sources of grievance all play a
role in creating fertile ground for terrorism. The gap
between the richest and the least fortunate nations of
the world keeps widening at an alarming pace. Threats
such as illegal mass migration, corruption, drugs and
arms smuggling, money laundering and other types of
organized crime are on the increase.
It is our collective responsibility to find lasting,
viable solutions to these problems. Developing nations
must focus on ways of achieving sustainable economic
10

growth, on improving income distribution, education
and justice and on addressing other social needs.
Developed nations must be more forthcoming in debt
relief, must increase development and humanitarian aid
and must allow greater access to their markets.
Today, the United Nations and its Member States
face a mutual challenge. The name of this challenge is
Afghanistan, and it has two dimensions: to combat the
terrorist network, which, by exploiting the Afghan
people’s plight, has taken root in its geography; and to
support the revival of Afghanistan, of the Afghan
identity, by ensuring peace, stability and economic
development.
Turkey is resolutely committed to meet this
challenge; we fully support the United Nations efforts
and those of the Special Representative, Mr. Brahimi.
Turkey worked together with the Afghan people from
the 1920s to the 1960s; and it resumed cooperation
again in the early 1990s. We believe that concerted
international action, with sound principles and
effective means, is of crucial importance. I will try to
elaborate on some suggestions.
First, it is the Afghan people themselves who will
rebuild their identity and their country. Our task is to
assist and support their efforts — not to dictate who
will run their country, and how. In this respect, regional
and tribal affinities should be encouraged to merge into
a single Afghan identity and assume a secondary role
as sub-cultures. This is capital for Afghanistan.
Secondly, all countries, either neighbours of or
involved in Afghanistan, should be discouraged from
relying on particular Afghan groups as their primary
allies and should refrain from pursuing their special
interests through those groups.
Thirdly, while the fight against terrorism and its
supporters goes on, special care must be taken to
ensure that innocent civilians are kept out of harm’s
way. All humanitarian support should be provided,
organized and facilitated.
Fourthly, in regions and cities of Afghanistan
freed from terrorist oppression, the United Nations and
involved forces should act immediately to ensure
security and relief. The success in providing for basic
needs and displaying the ability to produce a better
future will be paramount in expanding positive changes
to other parts of the country. Setting a successful
precedent would serve as the best catalyst.
Fifthly, and finally, everyone seems to agree that
the future administration and Government of
Afghanistan should reflect all ethnicities. It should also
encompass all political trends that have not resorted to
terrorism. In this process, overemphasizing or
undermining the role of any group in the country would
be counterproductive. It is evident that in the process
of rebuilding Afghanistan, the United Nations has to
play a leading role. It is the duty of each and every
Member State of the Organization to contribute to this
gigantic task.
I will touch upon one more issue, and the rest will
be distributed in the paper that I have prepared. This
last issue is: Cyprus. The Cyprus issue has remained
for 38 years. This subject is one that is known to the
United Nations. As the dates for some radical changes
in Cyprus through the Greek Cypriot side’s unilateral
accession to the European Union seem to be suggested,
and as Turkey considers these changes potentially
dangerous for the two parties and for the whole region,
this issue needs further attention. Any artificially
imposed solution that is not mutually acceptable to
both nations in the island and to the guarantor countries
is bound to create a severe crisis. Turkey, as well as the
Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), aspire
to a mutually acceptable solution, sought through all
possible means.
A unilateral act by the Greek Cypriots, in
violation of the 1959-1960 system, and pretending to
represent both nations, contradicts the legal framework
and the realities of Cyprus. The legal and practical
realities do not permit any party in the island to decide
unilaterally to enter any international body of which
both Turkey and Greece are not members; and any such
decision has to be taken mutually by the two co-
founders.
Through formal decisions of their parliaments
and Governments, both Turkey and the TRNC have
declared that they will not accept any solution that is
not freely negotiated and mutually accepted. Both
Turkey and the TRNC have also made it clear that they
reject any such development, which would make the
Turkish Cypriots a minority under Greek Cypriot rule.
The Turkish Government will not allow the resurgence
of a situation that in 1964 and 1974 caused massive
crimes to be committed against the Turkish Cypriots.
Turkey and the TRNC are for a solution based on
the realities of the island. There are two distinct nations
11

with different religions, languages and cultures with
two separate States and democracies in Cyprus. The
confederation proposal of President Denktaş deserves
serious consideration. We also support the Secretary-
General’s Mission of Good Offices and his efforts to
start a new phase of talks. In order to succeed, this
initiative should depart from sufficient common
ground.
Turkey welcomes the recent proposal of President
Denktaş to his Greek Cypriot counterpart that they get
together informally, without any preconditions, and
discuss all relevant issues in order to find a way
forward. The refusal of the Greek Cypriot party is in no
one’s interest.
The tragedy of 11 September can be viewed as an
omen of what can happen if the slightest carelessness is
shown towards any of the old and new threats the
world faces in the modern age, be they terrorism,
environment or poverty.
All I have said points to the need for the strong
commitment of Member countries to efforts aimed at
the shaping of a better future. I point as well to the
need to strengthen and streamline the United Nations,
with all its principal organs. This General Assembly
session of 2001 is a meaningful link in the chain which
the international community has forged to meet the
growing challenges of the new century. With realism
and courage we shall succeed.



"
56,2001,SYC,"﻿My delegation would
like to congratulate Mr. Han on his dynamic
stewardship of the deliberations of the General
Assembly at this session. Our felicitations also go to
the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and the United
Nations on being honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize.
The brutal and tragic events that took place in
New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on 11
September were the result of acts against not only the
United States, but the international community at large.
In his message of condolence to President George
W. Bush, the President of the Republic of Seychelles,
Mr. France Albert René, condemned the terrorist
attacks in the strongest terms, stating
“Our global village cannot tolerate such acts that
disrespect the value of human life and jeopardize
world peace and stability.”
The subsequent military action in Afghanistan
was understood, in principle, by the Seychelles
Government as being in accordance with Article 51 of
the Charter of the United Nations. Our Minister for
Foreign Affairs, in an interview with the local media,
referred to this military action as “self-defence”, and
expressed the wish that only the terrorist networks and
their clearly identified allies would be targeted, as part
of a carefully proportioned action plan, sparing civilian
populations and avoiding any kind of linkage between
religious faiths and ideologically based deviation.
The Seychelles Government agrees with the
following principles. Terrorism is a threat to
international peace and security. There is no political or
religious justification for such violence. We vigorously
condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
Further to the events of 11 September, Seychelles
recognizes the right of the United States Government
to react under guiding principles of international law
and to bring the perpetrators to justice. But there is also
a need to acknowledge the root causes of terrorism,
including extreme poverty, despair and injustice, and to
strongly advocate concerted efforts and collective
commitment throughout the world to eradicate poverty
and underdevelopment. Based on those principles and
concerns, the position of my Government does not
diverge from the views and recommendations
expressed by the international community.
We appreciate the authority of the United Nations
in providing global legitimacy for a universal response
against terrorism. The war on terrorism must be fought
on many fronts. The elaboration of a broad, long-term
strategy for combating international terrorism,
including military, political, diplomatic, legal and
economic means, is of paramount importance.
Seychelles welcomes Security Council resolution
1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001, which outlines
clear steps and measures that all United Nations
Member States must now implement in order to
prevent and suppress terrorist activities. My country is
fully committed to implementing the provisions of the
resolution, despite being handicapped by the
constraints linked to lack of capacities and resources.
Seychelles is a party to six of the 12 existing
United Nations conventions and protocols on terrorism.
My Government is taking steps to accede to the
remaining six. Furthermore, we have also decided to
accede to the 1999 Organization of African Unity
Algiers Convention on the Prevention and Combating
of Terrorism.
Seychelles fully supports the ongoing
negotiations to elaborate a comprehensive convention
on international terrorism. We commend the personal
intervention of Secretary-General Annan in trying to
bridge differences and achieve consensus. It is our
hope that, despite the complex and sensitive nature of
the issues being addressed, the international
community will arrive at an agreement very soon.
Bearing in mind the unprecedented international
mobilization against terrorism and the magnitude of the
33

present situation, we consider that the larger,
influential Members of the United Nations, particularly
the permanent members of the Security Council, should
manifest their strong political will and backing in
resolving regional conflicts in all parts of the globe.
Above all, they must intensify their efforts to achieve a
lasting peace in the Middle East. Let us not
underestimate the fact that regional conflicts are often
breeding grounds for terrorism.
It was mentioned earlier that terrorism is rooted
in poverty. The United Nations must engage its full
potential to vigorously pursue its development agenda.
This should comprise, inter alia, the drive for the
alleviation of poverty and achieving sustainable
development, the quest for equitable distribution of the
benefits of globalization, and the achievement of the
Millennium Summit goals, as well as the success of
next year’s International Conference on Financing for
Development and World Summit on Sustainable
Development.
As a small island State whose economy depends
mainly on tourism and related industries, Seychelles’
vulnerability is obviously at issue should the ongoing
military campaign in Afghanistan persist. As a peaceful
community enjoying stability and social harmony,
Seychelles, without questioning its strong moral
support for the cause of international security, also
encourages a dialogue giving the voices of reason and
compassion a chance to be heard, especially with
regard to the needs of the Afghan people, who have
lived three decades of war, resulting in the suffering of
very large numbers of refugees and displaced persons.
Finally, my country would like to lay stress on the
urgency for the United Nations to rethink the world
order, not just in terms of geopolitical balance, but in
terms of a new ethic. International terrorism cannot be
fought by way of offensive weapons, either traditional
or sophisticated. To agree on a common value system
is, in the middle and long terms, a more profitable
orientation for the whole of humanity.
This being said, my country renews its adhesion
to the international coalition of nations that are united
in the war on international terrorism and in the quest
for worldwide peace and security.





"
56,2001,MDA,"﻿Allow me at the outset, Sir, to convey to you
our warmest congratulations on your election as
President of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. I am certain that your competence and
active cooperation with United Nations Member States
will pave the way for a successful and fruitful session.
Allow me also to join previous speakers in
expressing our deep gratitude to your predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his outstanding work and for the
professional manner in which he presided over the
fifty-fifth session of the Assembly.
I should also like once again, on behalf of the
Government of the Republic of Moldova, to reiterate
our warmest congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi
Annan on having been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize,
which was so well deserved, and for his re-election to
another term of office. His tireless efforts in redefining
the role of the United Nations in this changing world
are certainly deeply appreciated and supported by my
Government.
The barbaric terrorist attacks of 11 September
have radically changed the international security
environment. Terrorism has become the most serious
and immediate threat to the security and stability of our
States. A challenge was laid down, not only to the
United States of America, but to the entire world
community. We fully agree with the statement made by
the President of the United States, Mr. George Bush, in
his statement before this Assembly at the 44th plenary
meeting, that “that threat cannot be ignored” and that
“civilization itself — the civilization we share — is
threatened”.
The fight against international terrorism has
clearly become a priority for the United Nations. Today
we see a strong international coalition emerging which,
in the short term, is determined to bring to justice the
perpetrators of terrorist acts and, in the long term, to
eliminate this evil from the face of the earth.
The Republic of Moldova, which immediately
aligned itself with the ranks of this coalition, strongly
condemned the indiscriminate large-scale terrorist
attacks that took place in New York, Washington, D.C.,
and Pennsylvania. Moldova has also unreservedly
supported the actions undertaken by the United States
in its legitimate self-defence and in accordance with
the United Nations Charter and Security Council
resolution 1368 (2001). Likewise, we support the
global and multidimensional approach adopted by the
United States in its war against terrorism.
The Republic of Moldova has demonstrated its
political will to combat terrorist activities through
concerted efforts with other countries in the framework
of various regional and subregional organizations.
11

Our Government has strengthened its counter-
terrorism legislation in order to comply with relevant
regional and United Nations conventions and with the
provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001).
Our country is also taking measures in order to speed
up accession to most of the remaining specialized
United Nations counter-terrorism conventions. This
morning, I signed on behalf of my country the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism.
The tragic events of 11 September have shown
that the international community must take further
steps to resolve the longstanding international
problems on which terrorism and violence feed. We
must urgently address the conflicts around the world
and eliminate their root causes and factors that can
nurture the development of terrorism.
I feel obliged to add my voice to those who see
the phenomenon of separatism as a root cause of
conflicts and a threat to international peace and
security. In a globalized and interdependent world,
separatism affects the bases of multicultural societies
and poses grave danger to the sovereignty and integrity
of States. Like international terrorism, separatism
emphasizes what divides rather than what unites us. As
a country affected by separatism for many years, we
have constantly noted this phenomenon and the
connections it sometimes has with other serious
criminal activities, including sometimes terrorism. This
is why, in our opinion, this issue, among others, must
be taken into account by the United Nations Member
States in their efforts to elaborate and implement a
comprehensive and efficient counter-terrorism strategy.
The fact that I am focusing on the issues of
conflict settlement and separatism is not accidental.
Over the years, my delegation has informed the
Assembly of the efforts being made to resolve the
conflict in the Transdniestrian region of the Republic
of Moldova. However, I am obliged to note with regret
the lack of any noticeable positive developments
towards a comprehensive settlement. Despite the
reasonable compromises on the part of the
constitutional authorities in my country, the separatist
regime continues to completely oppose any proposals
to grant special status to the region as a constituent part
of the Republic of Moldova. Moreover, the leaders of
that region have given a unilateral interpretation to
political documents worked out with the active
mediation of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Ukraine and the
Russian Federation.
Another matter of continuing concern is the fact
that in recent years the illegal production of different
types of armaments has been noted in this region.
These armaments have reached other conflict zones
through third countries, supporting terrorists, criminal
groups and secessionist movements.
We should like to state once again that a complete
and unconditional withdrawal of troops, munitions and
armaments, as stipulated in the Istanbul OSCE Summit
documents, would undoubtedly facilitate the peaceful
and lasting settlement of this conflict.
In this connection, I would like to emphasize that
my Government encourages the recent efforts of the
Russian Federation to cut back on its weapons
deployed in the Transdniestrian region of the Republic
of Moldova, in accordance with the Treaty on
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. Given the
considerable progress that has been already made, we
certainly hope that the process of destruction and
removal of the weaponry will be completed before the
Bucharest OSCE ministerial meeting this December. I
would like also to express our gratitude to those
Members of the United Nations that have contributed
financially to the OSCE voluntary fund established in
accordance with the Istanbul decisions.
The role of the United Nations in international
peace and security remains an essential part of its
global responsibilities. The Republic of Moldova
reiterates its conviction that the best strategy for
maintaining international peace and security is to
eliminate the root causes of conflicts. In this regard, we
fully support the Secretary-General’s efforts to move
into a culture of conflict prevention.
The submission of periodic regional reports to the
Security Council on disputes of various types that may
potentially threaten international peace and security is
another important and necessary measure. The unequal
attention given by the international system to different
conflicts is still a matter of great concern. In order to
be successful, preventive strategies must reach all
regions in crisis.
The credibility of the United Nations is called
into question whenever decisions mandating action in a
particular crisis are not matched by timely deployment
of peacekeeping forces. Experience in recent years has
12

shown that the United Nations capacity to meet an
expanding and increasingly complex range of
peacekeeping demands needs significant improvement.
We are pleased to note that action has been taken to
implement a number of practical measures proposed by
the Secretary-General in his second report on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Brahimi
report on peace operations.
Moldova has already established the legislation
and institutional framework for its future participation
in the peacekeeping operations. I should also like to
express the readiness of the Republic of Moldova to
participate in the stand-by system, for which the
institutional and technical preparations are currently in
their concluding stage.
As we seek to enhance the United Nations
capacity in conflict prevention and peacekeeping, we
must also strengthen international cooperation for the
promotion of sustainable development and the
elimination of poverty worldwide. Development and
poverty elimination are issues of tremendous
importance to many Member States, including my own.
Our economic development has been gravely affected
by the illegal actions of separatists, as well by the
negative consequences of globalization. These issues
have been considered very important by our leaders at
the Millennium Summit.
Since the beginning of this year the world
economy has experienced a certain slowdown. In the
aftermath of the incidents of 11 September, this
tendency has been exacerbated. The Millennium
Declaration recognized that the problems of both
developing countries and countries with economies in
transition have become even more acute, even tragic in
recent months, as a result of globalization. We hope
that developed countries will increase their support for
us in dealing with our problems by granting greater
assistance for development. Debt cancellation would
play a significant role in allowing us to free up
financial resources and redirect them towards
stimulating our economies.
In meeting the challenges of globalization, the
United Nations plays an indispensable role in
international cooperation. We welcome its greater
participation in development issues and in facing the
tasks set out in the Millennium Declaration. These
goals cannot be reached without significant financial
support. The International Conference on Financing for
Development and the World Summit on Sustainable
Development to be held next year offer a unique
opportunity to find the resources required to meet those
goals. We hope that the outcome of these two
significant international events will be successful in
this regard.
The Republic of Moldova remains open to all
forms of cooperation and is willing to contribute, as
much as possible, to reaching the common goals of
sustainable development and economic stability. We
consider that a comprehensive approach, based on the
experience of other States and on the specific cultural
character of a given country or region, will help us
identify and apply the best strategy for sustainable
development.
In order for the United Nations to remain relevant
and credible, it must maintain a strong commitment to
the continuing programme of reform and renewal. The
reforms that have been undertaken and implemented in
recent years have already done much to strengthen and
revitalize the Organization. However, much remains to
be done and, in particular, we need to intensify our
efforts to achieve a comprehensive reform of the
Security Council. The Republic of Moldova believes
that this reform should be guided by principles of
equitable geographic representation, democracy,
effectiveness, efficiency and transparency. It is on this
basis that we will be able to modernize the Security
Council and bring it into line with the substantial
increase in the general membership of the United
Nations.
In this context I would like once again to reiterate
the position of my country with respect to the
enlargement of the Security Council in both permanent
and non-permanent categories: the Eastern European
Group should be given one additional non-permanent
membership seat.
Our country welcomes the process of
revitalization and improvement of the General
Assembly and, at the same time, supports efforts to
restore the central role of the Assembly as a main
representative body for debate at the United Nations.
This year the Republic of Moldova is celebrating
the tenth anniversary of its independence. During these
10 years as a Member State of the United Nations, we
have fully shared the common values of the
Organization. We have achieved many significant
results in our internal development; much remains to
13

be done, however. We have nonetheless laid down the
foundations of a democratic society. This was not an
easy task, but we have made progress. The most
important achievement has been that we have laid
down the foundations of a democratic society, with
basic human rights and the rights of national minorities
being respected. The main achievement has been the
consolidation of the Republic of Moldova as a peace-
loving independent European country.
The dramatic change of the situation in the
international arena in the aftermath of the tragic events
of 11 September calls for a new vision and a
redefinition of the specific mechanisms for realizing
the fundamental objectives of the Organization, which
spring essentially from the founding philosophy of the
Charter of the United Nations. In this respect, the
Organization should draw conclusions from its own
past and, relying on permanent support from its
Member States, accomplish new tasks in the light of
the imperatives of the time. I join in expressing the
hope that the proceedings of the General Assembly —
which are absolutely necessary for the international
community in the twenty-first century — will also
make it possible to ensure that this process moves in a
positive direction.

"
56,2001,RUS,"﻿This session of the General Assembly is
taking place in the shadow of an unprecedented
challenge to humanity posed by international terrorism.
We all must seriously analyse how this could have
happened. However, it has already become perfectly
clear today that the period of globalization and the
threats and challenges to international and regional
security that it brings with it make it urgent for of all of
us to take fundamentally new approaches to
international affairs.
We face a tough dilemma, whose solution will
truly be of paramount importance. Either we work
together to responsibly construct a genuinely just and
democratic world order that can guarantee equal
security and sustainable development for all States in
the world, or we show ourselves to be unable to
counter real threats to global stability and security.
The most important task of the international
community today is to create a global system to
counteract new threats and challenges, first and
foremost among which is international terrorism. This
topic was the focus of negotiations between the
President of the Russian Federation, Mr. Vladimir V.
Putin, and the President of the United States of
America, Mr. George W. Bush, which recently took
place in Washington, D.C. and Crawford, Texas.
A universal anti-terrorist coalition has been
formed. The Russian Federation is a responsible
participant in this coalition. The creation of this
coalition has involved the United Nations playing a
very important role in consolidating and coordinating
activities. It is precisely the United Nations that has the
necessary universal character and authority to organize
a response to the threats and challenges that confront
mankind today.
The broad decisions taken by the Security
Council and the General Assembly create a solid
political and legal framework for efforts to neutralize
the threat of terrorism. It is now important for these
decisions to be implemented by all States.
If necessary, the use of the most decisive means
against terrorists may be permissible, including the use
of military force. The Charter grants that right. At the
same time, this threat cannot be overcome by force
alone. A comprehensive approach to eradicating
terrorism would imply the use of the whole range of
political, economic, financial and humanitarian
measures.
The consolidation of the international legal
framework for combating terrorism is now on our
agenda. It is extremely important to rapidly complete
and adopt the comprehensive convention on
international terrorism and a convention for the
suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism.
It would be of great importance to establish
within the United Nations a mechanism to monitor the
fulfilment by States of their treaty obligations
concerning the suppression of terrorism.
We consider promising the idea to establish,
under the aegis of the United Nations, a centre for
coordinating assistance to States to resolve crises
caused by terrorist acts. Such a structure could focus on
providing consultative and material and technical
support in managing the consequences of terrorist acts.
The Russian Federation also proposes studying
the possibility of including in international law the
5

principle of the responsibility of States for their failure
to take measures against terrorists in their territory or
under their jurisdiction.
Of key importance in the success of the
comprehensive fight against international terrorism is
the maintenance and strengthening of strategic stability
at both global and regional levels and strengthening the
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The focus of the international community should
continue to be on the interdependence and merging of
international terrorism, drug trafficking and
transnational organized crime. The Russian Federation
favours the rapid entry into force of the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism and the United Nations Convention Against
Transnational Organized Crime and its additional
protocols.
It is perfectly clear that the fight against terrorism
is not aimed at any particular religion, civilization or
culture. This was clearly demonstrated by the
discussions on the dialogue among civilizations during
the current session of the General Assembly. We also
hope that a practical contribution in this area can be
made by the implementation of the initiative put
forward by Islamic religious leaders from the Russian
Federation to organize an international conference
entitled “Islam against terrorism” in Moscow.
Terrorism is rooted in the gap between affluence
and poverty, both within States and in the international
arena. Thus, the task now, as never before, is to ensure
sustainable development throughout the world and to
ensure that the social aspects of the globalization
process are addressed.
The United Nations and its specialized agencies
can do a lot to ensure effective rejection of extremism
of all forms. We suggest that thought should be given
to organizing, under the aegis of the United Nations, a
world forum that would discuss what contribution civil
society and, particularly, the mass media could make to
combating terrorism.
International experience has shown that
successful prevention and settlement of regional
conflicts are an integral part of the counter-terrorist
efforts of the international community. This is yet
another compelling argument in favour of further
developing and ensuring greater effectiveness of
United Nations preventive and peacekeeping activities.
In particular, the Russian Federation advocates the
development within the United Nations of a
comprehensive strategy aimed at reliably blocking
channels for outside fuelling of the conflicts.
We need to ensure that there is regional
cooperation in fighting these new threats. An example
of such successful cooperation is that of the
Commonwealth of Independent States, under the
auspices of which a CIS anti-terrorist centre has been
set up and is working effectively.
Today, the moment of truth has arrived for each
of us. The Russian Federation is in favour of the
international community taking decisions that can
provide for strategic stability and equal security for all
States, sustainable development and prosperity for all
the peoples of the planet and peace and tranquillity for
each family and each individual.
These noble aims can only be achieved jointly, by
working cooperatively and uniting the efforts of the
entire international community. The United Nations has
a vital role to play in this regard. Our Organization
was, and indeed remains, the most important
instrument available to the international community,
whose effective and responsible use will allow us to
create a new democratic and just world order for the
twenty-first century.



"
56,2001,NPL,"﻿At the outset, I wish to
express, on behalf of His Majesty’s Government and
the people of Nepal, and on my own behalf, our
profound condolences to the Government and the
people of the United States, as well as to the families
who lost their loved ones in the unfortunate crash of
American Airlines flight 587 on 12 November.
Let me congratulate you, Mr. President, on your
well-deserved election to steer the fifty-sixth session of
the General Assembly. My felicitations also go to the
other members of the Bureau.
I also congratulate the Secretary-General on his
election to a second term and on being awarded this
year’s Nobel Peace Prize, together with the United
Nations.
We are meeting against the backdrop of the 11
September terrorist attacks that took innumerable lives
and caused colossal damage in our host country and
host city. The Nepalese people express their full
solidarity with the American people in this hour of
grief and support the American-led war on terror.
The horror’s powerful ripples have been felt
beyond the borders of the United States, around the
world. They have pushed the already slumping global
economy into a recession that is sure to unleash misery
and starvation on millions of people and kill thousands
of children in the developing world.
In the wake of the terrorist onslaught, the United
Nations was quick to act. It approved fresh measures,
including Security Council resolution 1373 (2001),
calling on Member States to stem the terrorists’
channels of communication, freeze their finances, deny
them refuge and support, strengthen domestic and
international law against them and collectively take all
necessary measures to prevent and defeat them.
A broad coalition of States united around a
common goal has launched a global campaign against
terrorism. Itself being a victim of terrorist activities,
which have taken nearly 1,800 lives over the past five
years and have grossly undermined development
efforts, Nepal fully understands the challenges and cost
of defeating this elusive enemy that has no borders, no
territory and no standing army. Yet with collective
resolve and determination and with preventive and
curative actions we can sniff out the forces of
terrorism, if we only refrain from political expediency
and moral relativism.
Enforcing all the existing relevant conventions
and resolutions is as crucial as the early conclusion of a
7

comprehensive convention on terrorism in order to
achieve the objective.
The twenty-first century begins with a new and
uncertain security environment. No sooner had we put
the wars, and the cold war, of the last century behind us
and had begun to grapple with internal conflicts than
terrorism emerged as a grave threat to international
peace and security. It should be tackled decisively and
without delay.
As we engage in the war on terrorism, we must
not forget that the edifice of durable peace can be
erected only on the fundamental pillars of the
prevention of conflicts, the peaceful resolution of
disputes, persistent efforts for disarmament, poverty
reduction and development, and respect for diversity,
fairness and justice. The culture of peace and dialogue
should advance the process.
We now live in a global village where all are
interdependent. A fire in one house may consume the
entire village if left unchecked. That is why concerted
efforts to secure peace and stability are critical in the
troubled nations of Africa, Asia, Europe and elsewhere
that have suffered wanton instability and violence that
are pernicious for their national integrity, social
harmony and economic progress.
In particular, we will have to end the cycle of
violence and death in the Middle East by finding a
durable solution to its festering problem. The war on
terror and the restoration of stability will succeed in
Afghanistan if its people are saved from starvation and
unwarranted hardship now and assured of their
country’s reconstruction when the struggle is over.
Criminal acts such as those involving the present
anthrax scare in the United States and the use of sarin
gas in the Tokyo subway a few years back are strong
testimony to the necessity of abolishing biological and
chemical weapons before an appalling catastrophe
befalls us. More importantly, the proliferation of
nuclear weapons and the increasing likelihood of their
use by terrorists, viewed in the context of the
successful 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, constitute compelling reasons to follow the
path of complete and general nuclear disarmament.
The inability of the Conference on Disarmament
to agree on its programme of work for the past several
years raises serious doubts about our commitment to
disarmament. That forum should be activated without
delay and should be tasked with negotiating new
disarmament treaties, including one on nuclear
disarmament, and to strengthen the existing ones.
In order for United Nations peace efforts to
become instrumental in promoting global peace, Nepal
has lent them moral backing, has contributed nearly
40,000 troops and has sustained 42 casualties in the
line of duty. Nepal is willing to work for the
improvement of peacekeeping operations, taking into
account both the Brahimi Panel report and our
collective experience.
While we are preoccupied with the immediate
steps against terrorists, we must not overlook or
abandon other equally pressing issues central to
durable peace, such as the need to remove poverty,
create jobs and provide education, drinking water,
health and other basic services in poor countries. The
reason is simple: terrorists and anarchists often exploit
the vulnerabilities of the impoverished, the
unemployed, the excluded and the disaffected to carry
out their sinister designs.
Of course, poor countries have no choice but to
undertake painful reforms to improve their governance
and performance. Decreasing assistance to the poor in
the face of increasing prosperity in the rich countries
defies our understanding. Therefore, it is equally
urgent and essential that they receive increased support
from their development partners.
For example, rich countries need to reverse the
decline in development assistance and meet the aid
targets, fully fund and expand the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative to cover all least
developed and worst affected countries and facilitate
investment in the South. Their trade barriers ought to
be dismantled and markets opened to spur exports and
help to broaden the production capacities of developing
countries.
As the advanced nations seek to hammer out a
stimulus package to extricate their economies from the
dark shadow of the present economic downturn, they
must also be mindful of the much greater needs of
poorer nations at this time of economic hardship.
Undoubtedly, all developing countries face
serious obstacles to their development journey. But
landlocked developing countries suffer from the
8

additional impediments of remoteness, transit-transport
difficulties and lack of access to sea-based resources.
However, nowhere are the trauma of deprivation
and dispossession and problems of development more
staggering than in the least developed countries,
virtually all of which are in Africa and Asia.
Globalization has further marginalized them, and the
information revolution has hardly touched them. The
United Nations special programmes of the past two
decades have apparently been inadequate and unable to
make a difference, as many of these countries have
become increasingly worse off over the last decade.
Nepal is committed to vigorously implementing
the outcome of the Third United Nations Conference
on the Least Developed Countries. We sincerely hope
that our development partners will leave no stone
unturned in carrying out their commitments, including
the European Union’s “everything but arms” scheme.
Conflicts and chaos, and deprivation and disasters
continue to spawn humanitarian problems and to create
situations in which human rights are compromised.
Today there are 22 million refugees, including 100,000
in Nepal, and many more internally displaced persons
around the globe. Responding to such exigencies is
naturally a priority, as is the war on terror, but we must
bear in mind that humanitarian assistance cannot
prevent the recurrence of crises until people are
empowered and their vulnerabilities addressed.
I should like to take this occasion to thank the
international community for its support in the
maintenance of refugees in Nepal. We urge it to
continue its assistance until the problem is resolved,
leading to their repatriation. To this end, we are
engaged in dialogue with the Government of the
Kingdom of Bhutan.
The need has never been so urgent to protect
refugees, maintain ecological balance, preserve the
environment, promote sustainable development and
ensure that this planet remains at least as liveable for
our children as it has been for us. The strengthening of
existing global treaties on the environment, and
particularly the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol, is
urgently required.
Nepal, a least developed and landlocked nation,
has accorded its topmost priority to poverty reduction,
spending more than 70 per cent of its budget in rural
areas where the poorest people live, and has adopted a
market-led development policy with a two-pronged
strategy.
Policies and measures have been instituted to
attract foreign investment and to harness people’s
creative potential by means of economic liberalization,
investment incentives, decentralization and the
rationalization of public spending priorities. Of late, we
have taken steps towards land reform, the
empowerment of women through education,
inheritance rights and political participation, together
with special developmental programmes to assist weak
and vulnerable people and regions.
Yet progress has been slow in coming, with the
attendant serious consequences. Nepal’s per capita
gross national product of $220 is one of the lowest in
the world; 38 per cent of the population lives below the
poverty line; and the ratio of the Government’s foreign
debt stock to government revenue is 410 per cent, and
to annual exports, 350 per cent. These statistics are
incredibly disheartening, even among the least
developed countries.
Despite this, Nepal is left out of the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. I therefore
urge the donor community to include Nepal in the
Initiative to help release our resources from debt-
servicing obligations, which will enable us to
implement poverty-reduction programmes more
effectively. But this will in no way substitute for the
need for increased development assistance.
The United Nations has an elemental role to play
in meeting all these challenges. To prepare it to address
them, Nepal believes that we should revitalize the
General Assembly and the Economic and Social
Council and augment cooperation and coordination
among the various United Nations organs. Likewise,
we deem it imperative to enlarge the Security Council
and to improve its methods of work, including through
the deepening of its cooperation with troop-
contributing countries.
Veto power militates against the basic tenets of
equality and democracy; it reflects the realities of a
bygone era. Nepal is convinced of the necessity to do
away with the veto and understands the profound
difficulty of achieving this goal. Until it has been
eliminated, this power ought to be rationalized by
defining the parameters for its application.
9

The Millennium Declaration has given us a vision
of and benchmarks for a peaceful, decent, just and
viable global society, and it has indicated how the
United Nations could be instrumental in achieving
them. It is our collective obligation to implement them,
sharing the burdens and benefits equally. Nepal
welcomes the road map for the implementation of the
Declaration.
The implementation review of various global
compacts has unmistakably established a shortage of
financial resources as the principal reason for lack of
progress. Nepal hopes that the World Summit on
Sustainable Development and the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year, will do their best to chalk out a blueprint for
financing developmental activities, which is the
foremost concern of the developing world.
As regional cooperation is an effective vehicle for
broadening markets and production as well as for
building collective competitiveness, Nepal and other
South Asian countries have been working together
under the umbrella of the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC). I am happy to inform
the Assembly that Nepal will have the privilege of
hosting its next summit in January 2002, following its
postponement two years ago.
Again, in the spirit of regional solidarity and of
its abiding commitment to peace and disarmament,
Nepal looks forward to the early relocation of the
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia
and the Pacific to Kathmandu, where it belongs. We
have, on our part, completed all necessary preparations
for the effective functioning of the Centre from Nepal.
Democracy, development and human rights are
integral to society’s advancement. Therefore, Nepal is
engaged in promoting democracy and freedom, and
human rights and justice for all, particularly women,
children and vulnerable groups. We cherish these
values, which are crucial to preserving human dignity
and to bestowing on human beings the opportunity to
reach their full potential.
In the aftermath of the agonizing royal massacre
in Nepal early this year, our people’s faith in
democracy has been further reinforced, as it ensured a
smooth succession and stability in the face of a terrible
crisis. I thank all our friends for their solidarity and
support at a time of national tragedy in Nepal.
We have witnessed unprecedented unity among
nations in fighting major wars in the past, and
terrorism at present. If we show the same kind of
resolve and dedication, we can successfully fight
poverty, deprivation and discrimination. The United
Nations should brace itself to face them effectively, and
Member States should assume a greater sense of
responsibility. Nepal, committed as it is to the
principles and purposes of the United Nations, will
continue to do its best to help it achieve its goals and to
make a difference in our people’s lives.



"
56,2001,PLW,"﻿Let me begin by
conveying my deepest sympathy and condolences to
the families and relatives of the victims of American
Airlines flight 587, which crashed in this great city two
days ago, exactly two months and one day after the 11
September terrorist attack. The people of New York are
once again being put to the test, and once again they
will come out of this tragedy more resolved and
determined, under the leadership of Mayor Giuliani and
Governor Pataki. While we pray for the victims and
their families, let us also pray that the crash, as tragic
as it was, will prove to be an accident and not an act of
terrorism.
In the wake of an unfathomable, barbarous act of
terror against a civilian population made up of citizens
from nations around the globe, we gather together in
unprecedented unity. We are united in our sorrow over
the losses arising from 11 September — the loss of
lives, the loss of friends and loved ones, the loss of
livelihoods and the loss of innocence, for want of a
better word. We are united in our condemnation of the
horrific acts perpetrated by an isolated group of
extremists who have no respect for human life. We are
united in our resolve that those responsible for the
atrocities of 11 September, and those who support
them, are a cancer in the body of nations — a systemic
blight which extends beyond the individual
perpetrators and which must be utterly eradicated, lest
it return and spread.
At the same time, we are united in our conviction
that their evil cannot be allowed to force us to abandon
respect for human rights and adherence to the rule of
law, which are fundamental principles of this
Organization. We are united in our recognition that, for
all their claims to holiness, those responsible for these
criminal acts of terror bear no legitimate claim to any
civilized religion and certainly do not represent the
noble and honourable beliefs of Islam. We are united in
our understanding that the peoples of Afghanistan are
also victims of the corruption and ill-fated control of
their Government by these criminals and their
supporters, as well as in our desire to assist in
improving the quality of life of the people of
Afghanistan. In all these things and more, we are
united to a degree that would have been unthinkable
before 11 September.
2

This new spirit of cooperation reflects the most
positive feature of globalization — the feature which
pro-globalization factions do not often put forward and
anti-globalization forces never consider. It is the only
feature of globalization that Pacific island countries
such as Palau can see as being truly and inherently
positive — a feature that the Pacific island countries
have recognized among themselves for decades. That
feature is the acknowledgement that, ultimately, there
is only one system in which we exist, and the related
understanding that any act or condition within that
system affects each of us, although in varying ways and
degrees. In such a system, problems are best addressed
through coalition-building and a consensus-driven
approach, a process of give and take, involving the
widest possible range of participants. We see proof of
this as the world continues to cooperate in responding
to the 11 September attacks against humanity.
As I have said, in this new spirit of cooperation,
the process of decision-making and the implementation
of those decisions must be as open and participatory as
possible. This is especially true in the light of the need
to weave together military, financial, law enforcement,
trade, intelligence-gathering and foreign aid issues. In
these troubled times, it simply makes no sense to
isolate a proven ally in the fight against terrorism. Yet
that is what is happening. The Republic of China on
Taiwan, which could and should be a very valuable
asset in these and other cooperative actions, is
significantly restricted in the role it can play because it
has been barred from membership in this body. In fact,
it is the only nation in the world which has no voice in
this Organization.
Not only is the exclusion of Taiwan contrary to
the fundamental, inclusive principles of the United
Nations, but on a more pragmatic level it compromises
security in Asia and the Pacific. Lacking a neutral
forum for the non-violent, diplomatic resolution of any
disputes it might have with the People’s Republic of
China, the Republic of China on Taiwan is at a great
disadvantage in maintaining stable and peaceful
relations in the region. It is simply counterproductive,
from either a practical or a political viewpoint, to
exclude from this body a peaceful, democratically
governed, economically vibrant nation which embraces
human rights and plays a major role in other
international organizations.
Similarly, it makes no sense, in this new global
system, to ignore an entire bloc of nations because of
perceptions left over from an earlier, colonial-era
world. Yet the Pacific island countries are still being
marginalized in the various United Nations bodies and
processes. It is time to recognize that the Pacific island
countries are unique entities, island countries with
distinct traditions, cultures, needs, interests and
concerns and are not merely the leftovers of
colonialism. It is time to recognize that they are among
the youngest nations of the world, with special
requirements for assistance in assuming their proper
place in the global arena. Those needs, interests and
concerns are often overlooked against the larger
backdrop of the Asia-Pacific Group in the United
Nations. It is time to change that; to deal more fully
with the Pacific island countries as such, rather than as
an afterthought tagged onto Asia.
Resolutions have been put forward which could
correct the erroneous exclusion of the Republic of
China on Taiwan, pave the way to providing a properly
expanded role for the Pacific island countries as such,
and produce greater cooperation and broader support in
all the key works of the United Nations. Now is the
time for the membership to adopt those resolutions in
recognition of the need for full participation of all
peoples in the global events unfolding now and sure to
develop in the foreseeable future.
Moreover, it is equally important in this new
globalization and world order that the most important
organ of the United Nations, the Security Council, be
reorganized and restructured to reflect true
representation of this Organization. While we
commend and applaud the five permanent members of
the Security Council for their efforts and contributions
to world peace and security, the time has come for this
body to consider the inclusion of several Member
States as permanent members of the Security Council.
Japan, among few others, has certainly reached the
level and capacity to be one of the permanent members
of the Security Council. In this respect, we applaud the
recent decision of the Japanese Government to send
support forces to the United States-led coalition war
against international terrorism.
Finally, if it can be said that any good came from
the abominations of 11 September, it would be this:
countries of the world that gave little thought to
engagement and cooperation in a larger, global system
are now fully engaged and working side by side with
countries to which they were formerly antagonistic or
to which they gave only passing thought, at best. This
3

new perspective can and should be applied to respond
to another global attack, one that is even more basic
than terrorism and will remain a threat to humanity
after the criminals of 11 September are brought to
justice.
This threat arises from the attack on our own
ecosystem through desertification, through the
reduction in global biodiversity and through global
warming and sea-level rise, all resulting from human
activities. These attacks, infinitely less dramatic than
those of 11 September, are nonetheless equally
systemic in nature and equally threatening to us all. It
is time to apply the same new understanding of global
dynamics, so forcefully driven home on 11 September,
to our environment.
We applaud and are very much encouraged by the
developments of the recently concluded seventh
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in
Morocco. To that end, I want to repeat my oft-stated
call for all nations to finalize negotiations on, sign,
ratify and implement the Kyoto Protocol as soon as
possible. Just as we must now directly confront the
effects of transnational acts of terror, we must now
directly confront the environmental consequences of
our own actions. Delay on either matter is unacceptable
and will only further compromise our well-being.
For perhaps the first time in its glorious history,
the phrase “United Nations” literally describes this
Organization. While we remain shocked, saddened and
deeply offended by the events giving rise to the new
unity, we must acknowledge and nurture whatever
good those events can be turned to. We now have the
ability to see the clear advantages of close cooperation
on matters which affect us all. Let us use the
knowledge, that wisdom gained from pain, and forge
even stronger, institutional reliance on cooperation,
consensus and coalition-building across the widest
possible constituency as we go forward in this new
global system.






"
56,2001,ETH,"﻿At the outset, allow me to
express my sincere congratulations to the President on
his election to lead the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly. I am fully confident that under his
presidency, we will have productive discussions and
reach a fruitful conclusion. I would also like to convey
my appreciation to the outgoing President for his
conduct of the work of the last session.
Let me also take this opportunity to once again
convey my Government’s warmest congratulations to
our Secretary-General on his appointment to lead our
Organization for a second term. Indeed, his re-election
is well deserved. We are also delighted that the United
Nations and the Secretary-General were awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize for this year. It is a testimony to and
a recognition of the important work the United Nations
has been doing.
It is now over two months since the terrible
events of 11 September. What happened on that day
touched not only the people of the United States but
also the whole world. Not only because scores of
countries lost nationals, but also because New York,
the seat of the United Nations, is in many ways the
capital of the world. The terrorists might have
succeeded in committing this unimaginable and
barbaric crime, but we have no doubt that they have
failed to extinguish the hope and vitality that New York
symbolizes and embodies.
Terrorism is not new to Ethiopia. For the past 10
years, we have been victims of terrorist attacks, and we
have combated it. That is why we remain committed to
doing our utmost to enhance the international effort to
root out terrorism.
23

Over the long term, terrorism will be defeated
when the ideological cover it is wearing is removed
and shown to be empty. But this can be achieved only
when those who are capable of perpetrating heinous
crimes are not only denied safe havens, but also
deprived of any alibi. This is where, among other
things, the fight against poverty becomes all the more
critical.
The fight against poverty is not as elusive as the
fight against terrorism. For the former, we know the
causes, and we know how to fight it and which tools to
use. What we lack is the global political will to act.
The grimness of conditions in Africa in this regard is
obvious. There is no need for me to go into detail
regarding the statistics on the situation in Africa.
African leaders have taken the conclusions of the
Millennium Assembly a step further and have come up
with the New African Initiative, now called the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). They
have drawn a broad plan on how to bring peace,
security and development to a continent that has been
plagued by conflict, overwhelmed with insecurity and
mired in underdevelopment. The main thrust of the
initiative is that we in Africa have duly acknowledged
the responsibility for our continent’s fate. Hence, we
fully accept that peace, security, democracy, good
governance and sound economic management are
essential conditions for economic growth and
sustainable development. At the same time, we are
fully aware that Africa at present lacks the required
resources and capacity to implement this initiative.
This new African initiative thus calls for a
complementary obligation on the part of the
international community.
I would like to point out the importance of this
mutual obligation. Without it, we cannot look forward
to the future with confidence; without it, the
consequences are bound to be grave. This is the
challenge that we face in Africa. The international
community must confront it with renewed vigour and
dedication.
On the subject of our national effort to seize the
opportunity presented by the prevailing peace in my
country, I have the pleasure to inform the Assembly
that we are now back on track in terms of playing our
proper role for peace and investing all our energy and
resources in fighting poverty at the national level. This
is a war, and we count on our partners to stand with us
in waging it. Our strategy in fighting poverty touches
on everything we do — in politics, diplomacy and the
economic domain.
We want to succeed in the fight against the HIV/
AIDS pandemic affecting our country. This major
scourge must be defeated. We are determined to fight
against corruption, and our record is unambiguous in
this area. We are committed to pursuing this without
any let-up.
I would now like to turn to the political and
security situation in our subregion, which, for obvious
reasons, is critical for us, as it should be a source of
concern for the international community.
The problem in Somalia needs to be resolved as
speedily as possible. There is no reason why the
situation should be allowed to continue festering, to the
detriment of the people of Somalia and of the
subregion in general. The parties to the conflict have to
sit down without preconditions to establish a broad-
based Government. That is what was called for by the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development at the
meeting at the summit level in November 2000. This
has to be implemented. This is the most viable
alternative. To do less would amount to abandoning
Somalia for international terrorists to wreak havoc
there and in the subregion. The establishment of a
broad-based Government in Somalia that includes all
the major political forces in the country is a crucial
step towards peace-making in Somalia, for which there
is no substitute. Ethiopia intends, along with other
members of the IGAD subcommittee on Somalia, to
play a more proactive role for the realization of this
objective.
We are also prepared to do our level best to assist
in the process of national reconciliation in Sudan. We
plan to be more active in this undertaking as well. We
believe that to bring the peace process forward, the will
and determination of the parties is critical. But they
need to be assisted, and assist we will, in good faith
and with all the necessary responsibility.
With regard to the situation between Ethiopia and
Eritrea and the implementation of the Algiers Peace
Agreement, it is neither prudent nor proper for me to
conceal from the international community both our
disappointment and, more importantly, our growing
concern. But let me, right from the outset, lest I be
misunderstood, make one important point absolutely
clear. Ethiopia is committed to the peace process and to
24

the scrupulous implementation of the Algiers
Agreement. This is how we intend to continue in the
future. We want the United Nations Mission in
Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) to succeed.
However, success in this or in any other conflict
situation cannot be achieved by the efforts of one of the
parties alone. This describes the situation we are facing
in the peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Prudence dictates that we call a spade a spade. Eritrea
is not complying with the Algiers Agreement, an
agreement which we believe is fair and in the interest
of both parties to protect.
The Temporary Security Zone established by the
Algiers Agreement is required to be a demilitarized
zone separating the two forces. This is the most critical
provision of the Algiers Agreement, whose violation
would logically unravel the whole peace process.
Eritrea has continued to refuse to maintain the integrity
of the Temporary Security Zone as a demilitarized
buffer area between the two forces. Regrettably, this
violation is taking place under UNMEE’s nose. We
have continued to complain, but in vain.
UNMEE might have felt that Eritrea’s compliance
would eventually be secured through appeasement and
by ignoring Ethiopia’s legitimate concern. But our
experience has made it unmistakably clear that
appeasement has never worked with Eritrea. And it is
not working now. What we have started witnessing
lately is an ever-increasing mobilization of troops by
Eritrea along the common border. Under these
circumstances, lack of vigilance on the part of UNMEE
and its policy of appeasement appears to be making
another round of fighting close to inevitable. The
Eritrean authorities might have felt that tension along
the common border is useful in the light of domestic
political necessities. It might serve a purpose for
diverting popular attention from the domestic front, but
it is manifestly reckless and dangerous. Under the
circumstances, we call on the United Nations, as a co-
guarantor of the Algiers Peace Agreement, to shoulder
its full responsibility to ensure that the Agreement is
scrupulously followed. The Security Council should
send an unambiguous message to Eritrea to
immediately desist from all actions that endanger the
peace process.
UNMEE needs to wake up and take Ethiopia’s
real concern seriously. Let there be no doubt about
Ethiopia’s continuing commitment to the scrupulous
observance of the Algiers Agreement and to the peace
process. Ethiopia will continue to do this faithfully.
Ethiopia is also equally determined to respond to real
threats, and reserves its right to act in self-defence.
There should be no doubt about Ethiopia’s
commitment to peace and stability and to carrying out
its responsibilities to the best of its abilities on matters
that affect the international community as a whole ─
first of all in its own subregion and in Africa. Its
commitment to the United Nations endures. Ethiopia is
a country that has always been true to principles of
international law and to their scrupulous observance.
We are proud of this tradition and we cherish it. This is
a tradition we will continue to be guided by.


"
56,2001,ARM,"﻿Let me begin, Sir, by
congratulating President Han Seung-soo on his election
as President of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. I would like also to express our appreciation
of and respect for Mr. Harri Holkeri for the
professionalism and dedication with which he
conducted the previous session.
Since the acts of terrorism on 11 September, each
of us, as individuals and as leaders responsible for the
future of our planet, has been trying to understand what
happened — why and how. The universal
condemnation of the arrogance and fascist mentality
9

that conceives and implements such terror could not
have been more justified. The immediate determination
that the perpetrators must be punished and their bases
eliminated was necessary and prudent. The awareness
that this is a long and complex process remains
evident.
Scholars and analysts have attempted to explore
and explain that day of terror, its causes and its
ramifications. This is a necessary process that, if we
are patient, will begin with more questions than
answers. Listening will inevitably lead to dialogue, not
just this year, but every year. If we are honest, this
dialogue will reflect the fact that, although we all see
quite plainly that there has been a change, we do not
agree on what that change is or how it affects each of
us.
There are those who believe that the world has
been taken off the path of economic globalization and
democratization. There are some who insist that the
nature and course of international relations has
irrevocably changed — that the world order, as it
existed, has come crashing down. That may be the
inescapable, though illusory, initial reaction. It may
appear that bilateral and multilateral relations have
been fundamentally and involuntarily re-tailored.
Yet if this perception becomes more than a
natural temporary reaction — if the terrorists succeed
in intimidating us, and force us to take actions that are
not in our best interests, causing us to abandon
principles and agendas — then the terrorists will have
succeeded. They will have terrorized their way to
setting agendas and determining policies. But just as
New Yorkers have vowed continued allegiance to their
city and their way of life, the international community,
too, must remain true to its structures, traditions and
agenda.
That is not to say, however, that life has returned
to business as usual, or that it can do so. It certainly
cannot return to thinking as usual. Our allied approach
to the problems and realities that we collectively face
requires genuine, radical rethinking. The deep
dissatisfaction, injustice, poverty and hopelessness —
which do not justify terror but serve to validate it,
legitimize it and guard it — must be addressed and
eradicated, too. These deep-problems must be replaced
by equality, education, social justice, women’s and
children’s human rights, civil liberties and democracy.
Armenia readily joined the global struggle to
eradicate the terrorism network because the success of
this effort is as important for us as it is for the coalition
leaders. However, Armenia asks that, in our effort and
exercise of responsibility, to neutralize this enemy, we
be careful about our own definitions and labels. Just as
it is crucial to ensure solidarity in the united battle
against the evil of terrorism, a divergence of
interpretative opinion or varied agendas should not be
construed as lack of solidarity.
Just as the coalition leaders are concerned about
the effects of terrorism on their countries, peoples,
lifestyles and values, Armenia is concerned about how
the advent of such terror, and the extended battle
against it, will affect our region and our country. The
war on terrorism has added a further dimension to our
domestic and foreign policy agenda, not narrowed its
focus. The economic and political conditions which
make ours a volatile region have not gone away.
Indeed, they have been exacerbated by the new
alliances and priorities. Worse still, they might be
further aggravated if they are ignored and allowed to
lie latent while all attention is focused on the
immediate danger. In focusing on the hatred of
thousands, we do not want to dismiss the frustration
and needs of millions, many of whom stand at the brink
of war.
That is why, even as Armenia has offered
unreserved cooperation with the global coalition,
signed the United Nations and Council of Europe anti-
terrorism conventions, and offered military and
strategic assistance, we continue to insist that the
fundamental short- and long-term developmental issues
facing us also be dealt with. We are worried about the
stability of our region, because the basic freedoms
which are the hallmarks of modern society and which
decrease the likelihood of violent social and political
solutions are not universally guaranteed in our
neighbourhood.
Security and peace around the world depend on
stability in each region. If we are committed to world
peace and security, each of us in our own region must
take on the responsibility to address the outstanding
issues in a new light, guided by new thinking. It
remains for the leaders to abandon the expediency of
realpolitik for the efficacy of “justpolitik”. This is
nothing that has not been said before, but perhaps in
this new environment of searching, our call will not fall
on deaf ears. Our region has the wealth, the traditions,
10

the opportunities and the links that can make it flourish
and thrive.
As far as Armenia’s contribution to peace and
stability in the Caucasus is concerned, there are two
intertwined issues affecting our relations with two of
our neighbours. One is the absence of relations with
Turkey, to the west; the other is the Nagorny Karabakh
conflict, which affects our relations with Azerbaijan.
For the past 10 years, representatives of my
Government have, from this podium, affirmed that
basic freedoms of thought, belief, conviction, ethics,
traditions, values and culture also apply to the men,
women and children of Nagorny Karabakh. This lies at
the heart of the conflict over Nagorny Karabakh.
Azerbaijan’s insistence on inventing numbers,
redefining terms, creating history and obfuscating
discussion are part of the problem, not the search for a
solution. In response to the charges made today by my
colleague from Azerbaijan with regard to Armenia and
Nagorny Karabakh, let me say the following. Nagorny
Karabakh has never been a part of independent
Azerbaijan. Whether we consider history or geography,
whether we adopt a long-term political perspective or
face the reality of the facts on the ground, the men,
women and children of Nagorny Karabakh have earned
the right to live peacefully on their historic lands. For
decades they have been denied that right. Today, a
dozen years after the re-eruption of the conflict, the
children of Karabakh have completed an entire school
career free of alien domination and foreign occupation.
Justice for the people of Nagorny Karabakh has
been at the core of Armenia’s policies and actions, not
just because we believe it is right, but also because we
believe that, in order to achieve lasting peace,
economic cooperation and political development, this
conflict will have to be resolved fairly and fully.
Azerbaijan’s empty calls for a military solution, which
arise from an adherence to old clichés rather than from
new realities, are not acceptable among neighbours that
are serious about peace.
As for our relations with Turkey, in this post-
11 September world, when the cold war has truly and
finally ended, where erstwhile adversaries have found
reasons to put aside ideology and establish
partnerships, perhaps Turkey will put aside
preconditions in the interests of regional and world
peace. Armenia would like to have normal, good-
neighbourly relations with Turkey, and is hopeful that
Turkey will establish diplomatic relations with
Armenia, open the borders and engage in constructive
cooperation.
But the obvious must be stated. The memory of
the Armenian genocide continues to haunt and obstruct
Turkey’s relations with Armenia. However, we are
confident that this issue can be addressed between the
two Governments, through dialogue. The events of the
past two months have reminded Armenians that man is
indeed capable of immense, indescribable evil and that
mass violence is not a thing of the past. Yet if we, as
the victims of genocide, are unwilling to permit our
own tragic past to define our actions in the future, we
can confidently call on Turkey to do the same, and to
join us as equal participants in a dialogue between our
two peoples.
There is no doubt that the United Nations
provides the most overarching and inclusive framework
for creating the conditions that make States and
peoples prefer peace to war. The United Nations —
acting, where possible, with various multilateral and
regional organizations — should identify and utilize
the comparative advantage and specificity of each
institution and each country as a potential fighter, as a
potential instrument in the war for peace, and even as a
potential victim.
The United Nations did not need 11 September to
acknowledge economic development and poverty
eradication as strategic battlefields in the war against
terrorism. Donor countries can contribute to the
success of this war by providing not only military
forces, but also greater financial and technical
assistance.
Such assistance must be coordinated. The new
challenges call for the consolidation of existing
mechanisms of international dialogue, cooperation and
security. The United Nations can make a major
contribution to this process, especially if it reflects, in a
more equitable manner, the political and economic
realities of today’s world. We believe that real reform
of the Security Council lies in the expansion of both
categories: permanent and non-permanent. We support
the desire of Germany and Japan to become permanent
members of the Security Council.
Armenia also attaches great significance to the
issue of equitable geographic representation, and hence
it supports increased representation for
underrepresented regions, especially Asia, Africa,
11

Latin America and the Caribbean. In this regard,
Armenia is equally supportive of India’s quest for
permanent membership in the Security Council. We
believe strongly that any increase in non-permanent
membership should also ensure enhanced
representation for the Group of Eastern European
States through the allocation of one additional non-
permanent seat.
Modern life has caused upheavals in static
societies, and the answer lies not in any particular faith
but in healthy, democratic institutions and legislation
and viable economic systems.
Writer V. S. Naipaul made that assertion, and this
year he was awarded a Nobel Prize, as was Secretary-
General Kofi Annan. This choice of recipients provides
much food for thought. Neither has been exclusivist;
they have both been inclusive, as can be seen in their
ability to bring their deep-rooted traditions to bear on
the challenges facing our global society. While Naipaul
the writer teases and provokes, Annan the diplomat
challenges and soothes. They both do so with grace and
from positions of strength. They can both afford to be
more extreme in their pronouncements, but they are
not.
The message here is that in this year of dialogue
among civilizations, there are successful ways of
merging the best of the world’s traditions, even while
challenging the world to move forward towards justice
and democracy for all. Naipaul and Annan do not reject
the failures of the world, but challenge us to address
them. We, collectively, could do worse than to follow
their example.


"
56,2001,GNQ,"﻿Allow me at the outset to express our deep
satisfaction at seeing Mr. Han Seung-soo presiding
over the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. For my delegation, the peaceable nature and
spirit of dialogue that identify and distinguish his
country, the Republic of Korea, together with his
outstanding qualities as a diplomat and tireless
negotiator — all of which he has demonstrated since
the beginning of this session — are guarantees for the
success of our work. He can rely on the support and
cooperation of Equatorial Guinea.
To the Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Kofi Annan, we wish to express our sincere
congratulations on his re-election for a second term to
lead the United Nations and the distinction conferred
on him and the United Nations as recipients of the
Nobel Peace Prize. We also commend the clear-
sightedness and resolve that he has shown in exercising
his responsibilities to revitalize this Organization and
confirm its role at a time in which peace, security,
stability, development and understanding are
increasingly precarious. We wish the Secretary-General
every success in his endeavours to carry out the
purposes enshrined in the Charter. To this end, he may
rely on our full trust and support.
I would not wish to proceed any further with my
statement without first expressing our most sincere and
profound condolences to the Government and fraternal
people of the Dominican Republic and to all the
families that have been affected by the tragic and
appalling plane crash that occurred on 12 November
2001. May God receive all the victims into his
kingdom.
This regular session of the General Assembly has
been one of mourning, because it is taking place at a
time when the international community, without
exception, feels that it is being dragged back towards a
past that it thought had receded into oblivion. Now,
more than ever, since 11 September 2001, the need for
security, stability, justice, equity and balance has
become a vital imperative and the highest of priorities.
The General Assembly is faced with a dilemma:
to evaluate the level of implementation of the
commitments undertaken in the framework of the
Declaration of the Millennium Summit and at the
special sessions of the General Assembly, before and
after the Summit, and other international conferences,
with a view to adopting the new strategies required, in
the light of the failures that have been registered in
various fields of activity, while at the same time, tuning
up and activating all the mechanisms required for the
struggle against and eradication of terrorism, since this
is a common enemy, with no identifiable face or
location.
Peoples and their Governments constantly face
the arduous, complex and inescapable obligation and
duty to adapt to new realities and demands that loom
ahead in the immediate or remote future. For this
reason, Equatorial Guinea concurs with and maintains
the opinion that this task cannot and should not rest on
the shoulders of one people or one Government or any
individual country in an isolated fashion. It should be
borne within a collective body such as the United
Nations.
We believe and maintain that the United Nations
continues to be the best option and best centre for
indispensable agreements, with all the wealth that its
diversity brings, for the purposes of conflict
prevention, crisis management, rapprochement among
peoples and enhancement of cooperation among States
on the bilateral, subregional, regional and
intercontinental levels. For this reason, the
Organization must be endowed with the means it
requires to organize international society, working to
combat intolerance, persistent tension and conflict and
the worsening economic situation of poor countries.
In this regard, in the light of recent positive
experiences, we advocate greater, closer and more
effective cooperation between the United Nations and
regional integration groupings, in general, and with the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the
Economic Community of Central African States
(ECCAS), in particular.
Together with the need to give the United Nations
the means to enhance its capacity, we believe that the
time is likewise ripe for both States and international
organizations, including the financial agencies, to take
29

specific and positive steps, without delay, aimed at
democratizing international relations, promoting and
reaffirming respect for human rights and consolidating
the disarmament regime and directing the investment
of military expenditures to international action to
promote development. Equatorial Guinea is continuing
to work towards these objectives through an
institutionalized national dialogue involving the
political forces of the country.
Equatorial Guinea shares in and insists on the
vital need to democratize the Security Council, setting
up the greatest possible interlocking and coordination
between the work and tasks of that body and the
responsibilities of the General Assembly.
In spite of the success that has been achieved in
some countries and regions in the area of peacekeeping
and peace-building, it is still disquieting to note that
these successes have served as culture media that have
encouraged areas of tension to persist indefinitely or
allowed other threats to peace to erupt. In fact, as the
United Nations is redoubling and improving the efforts
of peacekeeping and peace-building missions, the
Secretary-General has noted in his report on the work
of the Organization: “Global military expenditures
have continued to rise … Although official
development assistance levels have continued to fall …
military budgets have risen persistently.” (A/56/1,
para. 76)
The same concern about the absence of peace
applies to the sorry and disheartening aspect of
cooperation to eradicate poverty. For the United
Nations and its Development Group and certain non-
governmental organizations are striving to translate
into reality the decision taken at the Millennium
Summit to combat poverty and make globalization an
inclusive and not exclusive phenomenon.
Equatorial Guinea associates itself with the
principle of shared responsibility, taking the standpoint
that the problems that continue to face the least
developed countries are indeed the cause of the lack of
progress achieved in working towards international
objectives of human and social development. We hope
and trust that the Brussels Declaration and Programme
of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the
Decade 2001-2010 and the outcome of the
International Conference on Financing for
Development, scheduled to be held in Monterrey,
Mexico in May 2002, and other pertinent instruments
will lay the best possible bases for effective
cooperation for development.
As I noted earlier, Equatorial Guinea expresses its
satisfaction at the reduction of tensions in some
countries and regions. At the same time, it calls on and
encourages the parties involved in areas where
conflicts and disputes are born and persist to redouble
their efforts and to use their capabilities and potential
to seek peaceful solutions through peaceful
negotiations.
In this context, Equatorial Guinea reaffirms that
the People’s Republic of China is the sole State entity
that is representative of the Chinese people.
We also welcome the recent initiative to resume
the North-South dialogue for the peaceful reunification
of the Korean peninsula, and we support the principles
endorsed and the responsibilities assumed by the
Governments of the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the Republic of Korea.
At a time when the United Nations is fully
engaged in the search for solutions to alleviate the
many evils besetting peoples in all corners of the
world, through the adoption of strategies and
programmes of action to fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic
to mention just one example, the illegal traffic in
weapons and drugs, drug addiction, the mortgaging of
the lives of children through their traffic and easy
recruitment into the armed forces, discrimination
against women, and so forth, the international
community’s attention has been diverted by unusual
events such as the unprecedented terrorist act of 11
September 2001.
The acts carried out against the United States of
America on 11 September were undoubtedly attacks
against the United Nations. The prevailing atmosphere
of the current session of the General Assembly, a year
after the adoption of the Millennium Declaration by an
unprecedented attendance of 147 heads of State and
Government and a total of 189 Member States, and the
temporary postponement until next year of the General
Assembly’s special session on children are eloquent
examples, among others, of the challenge and the
dilemma faced by the United Nations.
In that context, we reiterate the most vigorous
condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and facets,
and we reaffirm the Republic of Equatorial Guinea’s
full support for and solidarity with the people and
30

Government of the United States of America at this
painful and worrisome time, which will be difficult to
forget.
The country’s competent constitutional organs are
currently adopting measures for the integration of the
Republic of Equatorial Guinea into existing relevant
international conventions on the prevention and
suppression of international terrorism, as part of its
response to the Joint Declaration on Terrorism, adopted
in Brussels on 11 October, and the Dakar Declaration
against Terrorism, signed on 17 October 2001, as well
as relevant resolutions of the Security Council.
As the Secretary-General’s report forcefully
points out, the Millennium Declaration insists on the
need to promote and intensify institutional cooperation
between the United Nations and regional and
subregional organizations:
“In an increasing globalized world, none of
the critical issues we are dealing with can be
resolved within a solely national framework. All
of them require cooperation, partnership and
burden-sharing among Governments, the United
Nations, regional organizations, non-
governmental organizations, the private sector
and civil society.” (A/56/1, para. 11)
In this context, and on behalf of the member
States of the Economic Community of Central African
States (ECCAS), over which Equatorial Guinea is
presiding, we reiterate our deepest recognition of the
great support offered by United Nations Member States
with respect to resolutions 55/22 and 55/161, on
cooperation between the Organization of the United
Nations and ECCAS and the observer status conferred
on the latter organization.
Given the prevalence of the informed political
will of ECCAS States to put an end to conflicts, the
loss of innocent lives, the destruction of economic and
social infrastructures and extreme poverty in rural
areas, we hope and are convinced that the General
Assembly will once again pronounce itself in favour of
the implementation and improvement of cooperation
between the United Nations and ECCAS in order that
the latter may direct its potential — individual and
collective — towards alleviating the new challenges
stemming from globalization and liberalization, for the
economies of the subregion. This would enhance the
path to democracy, respect for human rights and the
rule of law in the subregion, within the context of the
excellent and tireless work being carried out by the
United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on
Security Questions in Central Africa.
I would be remiss if I did not, on behalf of the
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, His
Excellency Mr. Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, convey to
the Assembly his greetings and sincere wishes for
success and prosperity to each and every participant.
His Excellency had expressed his wish to attend, and
regrets not being able to be present at these
deliberations.


"
56,2001,LSO,"﻿On behalf of the
delegation of Lesotho, allow me, through you, Sir, to
congratulate the President and other members of the
Bureau on their election to office during this fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to pay
a well deserved tribute to Mr. Harri Holkeri, President
of the fifty-fifth session, and to commend him for
spearheading efforts to reform and revitalize the
General Assembly, with a view to strengthening its role
as the chief deliberative policy-making and
representative body of the United Nations.
We congratulate our Secretary-General for
winning the Nobel Peace Prize and for his
reappointment as head of the Organization. This will
no doubt enable him to continue his efforts to make the
United Nations more relevant in facing today’s
challenges. We commend him for continuing to place
such a high premium on the need for the Organization
to develop better tools for conflict prevention,
management and resolution and encourage him to
6

continue developing concepts and strategic frameworks
for the Organization’s activities in the areas of conflict
prevention and peace-building.
We particularly wish to commend the Secretary-
General for his relentless efforts and commitment to
reforming and transforming the United Nations into a
functioning Organization with a new management
culture. We reiterate the view shared by many in this
Assembly that the United Nations would be more
democratic if the Security Council were made more
representative of the membership as a whole.
Regrettably, while we all agree on the need for reform,
agreement on the details for such reform continues to
elude us.
Lesotho reiterates its unequivocal condemnation
of the barbaric acts of terror committed against
innocent civilians on 11 September and extends its
condolences to the relatives of all those who perished
during the attacks. Ideological or other differences are
no excuse for such unspeakable acts; neither can such
evil acts be justified on the grounds of expediency.
Those responsible for these acts must be punished.
While we support the international coalition against
terrorism and consider ourselves part thereof, we
nevertheless stress the need for capacity-building to
enable all countries effectively to play their part in
combating this menace.
One year after the unprecedented Millennium
Summit is now a good time for us to reflect and take
stock of how we are responding to the challenges and
changes brought about by our ever growing
interdependence and the ever-increasing
interconnectedness of our economies. In this changing
world in which all forms of economic, social, cultural
and political activity have become dependent on access
to telecommunications and information services
provided by the global information infrastructure, what
progress have we made towards making globalization
truly global and ensuring that people everywhere share
in its benefits?
The truth of the matter is that there remains a
gaping digital chasm between the industrialized and the
developing countries, especially in Africa where the
majority of the people are yet to reap the benefits of
information and communications technology. Much
still needs to be done to jump-start the introduction of
information and communications technology in
primary schools in order to enable the developing
countries to respond to the changing needs of society
and the economy.
The United Nations system thus has to redouble
its efforts in assisting developing countries, particularly
in Africa, in building their capacity in curriculum
development to ensure improvements in the quality of
education and access to information and
communications technology, including through the
transfer of technology. We thus call upon all
international partners to treat information and
communications technology as a special priority for
Africa’s development.
Despite the many difficulties that the developing
countries continue to face in addressing their urgent
development needs, solid progress is being made
towards establishing strong institutional capacities for
sustainable development, including a sound
macroeconomic foundation, effective governance,
peace and stability. Following many years of
undemocratic military dictatorships and coups d’état in
Africa, the continent has begun to take bold steps to
climb out of the rut, and today strong winds of
democracy continue to reverberate throughout. This
deepening of democratic principles has led Africans to
shun all leaders who come to power through extra-
constitutional means. There is also a growing
awareness within Africa that sustainable development
cannot take place in the midst of actual or potential
conflict and that armed conflict is retrogressive and
inevitably destroys the achievements of many years of
national development; hence, conflict management is
now assuming greater importance in Africa.
Development is also beginning to take firm roots
as many African countries formulate their development
strategies and pursue greater cooperative relations with
their development partners. The key role played by the
United Nations in helping to re-energize the
momentum for international partnership between, in
particular, the least developed countries and the
international community will remain crucial for
addressing poverty and sustainable development.
Africa is not only determined to overcome its
problems, but it is also determined to ensure that the
future development of the continent is shaped and
designed by Africans themselves. Many of the evils
that have continued to plague Africa, including
economic decline, internal unrest and civil wars,
uncertainty, corruption and disintegration of States,
7

have been major obstacles to the development and
establishment of viable societies in Africa. All this has
made us realize that the only way to achieve
sustainable development for the continent is to ensure
that people live and work in stable conditions under the
rule of law. Transforming the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) into the African Union should thus be
seen as an important step that will pave the way for the
establishment of strong institutions endowed with
necessary powers and resources to enable them to
discharge their duties and responsibilities efficiently
and effectively.
It is against this background that the launching of
the New African Initiative in Lusaka in July was also a
turning point in Africa’s efforts aimed at ensuring that
appropriate Africa-wide and regional economic and
social reforms are carried out with a view to
eradicating all social injustices. This African-owned
and African-led economy-centred recovery programme
and framework for action is a pragmatic vision of how
Africa wishes to be included as a partner and not as a
recipient of the benefits and opportunities offered by
globalization. This initiative by Africans, which sets
out the right priorities and focal points for the
sustainable development of the African continent,
deserves not only commendation, but also support from
this Assembly and the international community as a
whole.
In embarking on this new path to recovery,
Africans have no illusions. They are fully aware of the
mammoth task that they have set for themselves and
believe that progress towards achieving it will have to
be driven by the people and Governments of Africa
themselves. We will have to create the necessary
conditions to allow the poor to become agents of
change, using their own talents and capacities to raise
their production and increase their income.
For all that to happen, Africa needs resources.
The international community must provide support not
only through development cooperation, but also
through improved trade access for African countries to
the markets of the developed world. The “Everything
but Arms” initiative adopted by the European Council
of Ministers in February is a first important step
towards scrapping customs duties on imports from
Africa and other developing countries, and needs to be
emulated. We express our gratitude for the support and
commitment already given to this initiative by the G-8
and the European Union and call upon other donor
countries and agencies to join Africa as it embarks on
its new path of recovery. In the same vein, we
acknowledge the benefits that the African Growth and
Opportunity Act holds for sub-Saharan African
countries.
The Millennium Summit reaffirmed the
Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development
goal of reducing by half the number of people living in
extreme poverty by 2015. Despite that, abject poverty,
a narrow resource base and, hence, broad dependence
on overseas development aid, unsustainable levels of
debt and the deleterious effects of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic continue to be part of everyday reality for
the majority of the people in the world. In some
regions of sub-Saharan Africa poverty has actually
increased, posing a serious threat to democratic
governance processes through the erosion of human
rights and human dignity, as well as the deterioration of
the already narrow natural resource base. In addition,
the number of least developed countries has more than
doubled since 1971, when the United Nations set up
that category of countries.
A more rapid and sustainable exit from debt is
thus imperative. This calls for urgent implementation
of an enhanced and expanded Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC). It further calls for
more comprehensive measures, including converting
the remaining bilateral debts of the least developed
countries into grants, widening HIPC to benefit more
countries, increasing the levels of official development
assistance, ensuring markets for the products of least
developed countries and encouraging greater volumes
of foreign direct investment to Africa.
Lesotho therefore looks forward to further
discussion of these measures during the coming
International Conference on Financing for
Development, the convening of which we fully
support. We also believe that the Programme of Action
for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade
2001-2010 is a benchmark framework for accelerating
the sustained economic growth and sustainable
development of the poorest and weakest segment of the
international community.
Housing remains a critical pillar of sustainable
economic development. It is the single most important
and obvious indicator of individual aspirations and
their fulfilment. Testimony to this is the renewal of our
commitment, earlier this year, to the principles of the
8

Habitat Agenda, which are encapsulated in the ideas of
adequate shelter for all and sustainable human
settlements for development. Poverty continues to be a
major factor for developing countries’ failure to realize
these twin goals of the Habitat Agenda.
In the same vein, a healthy population is an
absolute requirement for social and economic
development. We thus recognize the enormous
challenges posed by HIV/AIDS and other infectious
diseases. For Africa, which is host to 70 per cent of the
people infected with HIV/AIDS worldwide, this
scourge is reversing hard-won gains in economic and
social development. Political commitment and
leadership are therefore essential for building national
capacities to develop and implement comprehensive
national strategies for HIV/AIDS prevention, care,
support and treatment, all of which require
mobilization of resources. We therefore welcome the
outcome of the special session on HIV/AIDS held
during the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly,
and hope that the Global AIDS and Health Fund
announced by the Secretary-General will soon become
operational to provide funding on a grant basis to the
most affected countries.
Lesotho welcomes the global movement to ensure
that every child enjoys a better beginning, and hence a
better future, and has undertaken to renew its
commitment to ensure the rights of children. Our most
auspicious endeavour to that end was the progressive
introduction, in the year 2000, of free primary
education beginning with standard 1 pupils. We believe
that this is a step forward in ensuring sustained
economic growth and poverty reduction. The new
agreed dates for the postponed children’s summit
should ensure that we do not lose the momentum for
creating a better world for children.
Lesotho also remains keenly aware of the
important role that women play in the advancement of
the nation’s social and economic development
processes, as well as of the need to sustain their
involvement and participation at all levels. To that end,
we have heeded the call to States parties to the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women that have entered
reservations to the Convention to review those
reservations. Our own reservation to the Convention
has been amended with a view to withdrawing it at a
later stage.
The events in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda,
as well as the gruesome images of women and children
whose limbs were hacked off by rebel forces in Sierra
Leone, have shown that accountability for genocide,
war crimes and crimes against humanity, and universal
jurisdiction over those crimes, are key to bringing an
end to the cycle of impunity that we have witnessed
over the years. Lesotho’s tangible contribution towards
ending the culture of impunity is demonstrated by its
support and assistance to the activities of the
International Tribunals for Yugoslavia and Rwanda
aimed at bringing those responsible for the most
egregious crimes to justice, as well as its support for
the creation of the Special Court for Sierra Leone, for
which Lesotho has pledged $100,000 over three years.
The first payment of $40,000 in respect of the first year
has already been deposited. We call on the international
community to provide adequate funding in order that
the Special Court for Sierra Leone may come into
operation.
While the pace of ratifications for the Statute of
the International Criminal Court is encouraging, more
needs to be done if that Court is to become a reality
soon. Adequate time and resources should therefore be
made available for the Preparatory Commission to
fulfil its mandate within the first half of 2002.
International peace and security continue to be a
major challenge for the United Nations in the twenty-
first century. While some positive developments have
been recorded on various issues that are critical to the
security of the international community, much more
still needs to be done in pursuit of a more peaceful
world — a world free from weapons of mass
destruction; a world free from the arsenals of illicit
small arms and light weapons; and a world with
strengthened global norms for nuclear non-proliferation
and disarmament.
We renew our call to those who remain outside
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) to join the Treaty, and urge the
nuclear-weapon States to continue full compliance with
obligations assumed under the Treaty.
The recent spate of biowarfare threats have also
heightened the urgent need to devise effective
compliance measures that will make the proliferation
of biological weapons much harder and prevent such
weapons from falling into the hands of terrorist groups.
9

The historic United Nations Conference on the
Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects has succeeded in highlighting the human
suffering and insecurity engendered by the excessive
accumulation and illicit transfer of those weapons.
Though not fully satisfactory, particularly to those of
us who have suffered most from this scourge, the
measures envisaged in the Programme of Action are a
historic first step towards curbing this menace. It is
now up to all of us to forge meaningful partnerships to
ensure effective implementation of the Programme as
we move together to free the world of these weapons.
While peace has continued to hold in many
regions of the world, Africa has experienced setbacks
in that regard, as violent conflicts have continued
unabated. The sad legacy of our colonial past, wherein
State-sponsored activities facilitated the systematic
plunder of Africa’s resources, have been replaced by
foreign companies and individuals in pursuit of the so-
called bottom line, whose sole motive is the
maximization of profit. The link between conflicts, the
easy availability of arms, an abundance of natural
resources and the greed of these individuals have
totally devalued African lives. In other words, the
worth of African lives in the year 2001 is much the
same as during the time of slavery in the nineteenth
century. We call upon the same collective conscience
of the international community that condemned and
succeeded in eradicating slavery to speak with equal
vehemence against this evil in our time.
The volatile and explosive situation in the Middle
East remains highly regrettable. Lesotho supports the
creation of an independent Palestinian State on the
basis of Security Council resolutions, a State that
should coexist in peace with its neighbours.
We call on all parties to conflicts around the
world to intensify efforts to create conditions
conducive to the implementation of the agreements
reached and relevant Security Council resolutions, as
well as to the effective engagement of the United
Nations. We are encouraged by the developments in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and Sierra
Leone, and applaud the efforts of all parties to bring
peace to their countries.
We are, however, saddened by the lack of
progress in the implementation of agreements relating
to the settlement, once and for all, of two of the largest
running conflicts, in Angola and the Saharan Arab
Democratic Republic. We in Lesotho are convinced
that the Houston accords remain the foundation for
self-determination in the latter, while, undoubtedly, the
Lusaka Protocol on Angola remains the only viable
basis for peace in that sisterly country.
In conclusion, Lesotho renews its commitment to
multilateral cooperation and the principles enshrined in
the United Nations Charter. The current difficult times
call for the strong support of the United Nations and
the multilateral processes if the Organization is to
effectively address the new global issues and
challenges that confront it.








"
56,2001,BFA,"﻿I should like first of all to offer the profound
condolences of Burkina Faso to Algeria and the
Dominican Republic following the disasters that have
struck those countries.
I would like to convey to you, Sir, my heartfelt,
warm congratulations on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. I would also like to congratulate the members
of the Bureau, as well as Mr. Harri Holkeri, President
at the fifty-fifth session, for the outstanding efforts that
he made during his term of office.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay a
resounding tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan, whose
noteworthy re-election to the post of Secretary-General
of the United Nations confirms the exceptional
qualities that he possesses as a diplomat and tireless
champion of peace and justice in the world. The Nobel
Peace Prize, which has just been awarded to him, is
eloquent testimony to that.
Last year, the leaders of the world met here to
give new impetus to our Organization and to commit
the international community to mobilizing itself more
resolutely in the quest for international peace and
security and to fighting poverty, injustice and other
scourges that threaten the very existence of humankind.
The terrorist attacks of 11 September which
struck the United States and plunged the American
people, as well as other peoples throughout the world,
into grief truly marked a turning point in the
development of international relations. They were a
brutal and atrocious reminder of both the complexity of
problems facing humankind and the urgent need to find
appropriate solutions to them. Burkina Faso firmly and
unambiguously condemned those barbaric, criminal
and repugnant acts, and we condemn them still.
Furthermore, we are resolved to take part in any
initiatives undertaken by the international community
to eradicate terrorism and its causes. That is why
Burkina Faso has begun the process of ratifying the
Organization of African Unity Convention on the
Prevention and Combating of Terrorism, as well as
United Nations conventions on this subject.
My Government has just adopted a draft law with
a view to ratifying the United Nations Convention
against Transnational Organized Crime and the first,
second and third protocols thereto, relating,
respectively, to the smuggling of migrants; trafficking
in persons, particularly women and children; and the
illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in weapons. In
cooperation with the United Nations, Ouagadougou
will be hosting, from 28 to 30 November, a seminar for
the foreign ministers and ministers of justice of the
2

countries of the Economic Community of West African
States, the aim of which is to accelerate the ratification
of that Convention.
If it is to be effective, the campaign against
terrorism must be part of a coherent and solid world
coalition, with its basis in the United Nations. At the
same time, it must take into consideration the realities
and constraints confronting international relations. In
other words, in addition to military action, the
campaign must include the most appropriate political
and diplomatic measures in order effectively to deal
with conflicts and regional political problems and to
reduce gross injustice and inequality which, because of
the frustration they generate, serve as a breeding
ground for extremists and fuel violence and hatred.
As our mobilization to fight terrorism must be
total, so also must we see to the prior definition of
clear objectives and appropriate methods for their
implementation. While it is true that terrorists are our
enemies, it is also true that the manner in which we
combat them should not provide them with allies. As
President Blaise Compaore recently stated:
“As we see it, there is a risk that, if we are not
careful, the responses to the events of 11
September might lead to a catastrophic scenario
for humanity, with a tangled web of conflict:
conflict between the Judeo-Christian world and
the Muslim world; conflict between West and
East; conflict between the rich North and the poor
South. It is therefore crucial for our current
leaders courageously to attack the injustices and
inequalities which fuel violence and hatred.”
The international community must therefore
resolutely commit itself to combating poverty,
epidemics, in particular HIV/AIDS, and economic and
commercial marginalization, as well as exclusion of all
kinds, which continue to be the daily lot of many
regions of the world.
Attacking these injustices means necessarily that
we have to find a solution to the question of the Middle
East. The right of the Palestinians to establish an
independent State, respectful of the existence and
security of Israel, is a sine qua non here. Because of the
continuing tension in that part of the world, convening
a special international conference on the subject at the
earliest possible date is necessary.
It is also essential to lift the iniquitous embargoes
imposed on some States, such as Libya, Sudan, Iraq,
Iran, and Cuba. For, not only do these embargoes cause
suffering to their people, but they also help to weaken
world peace and security.
The Republic of China in Taiwan, which has
demonstrated sufficiently that it is a democratic and
peaceful State, is prepared to play its rightful role in
the concert of nations, and it should no longer suffer
from the injustice that we are combating each day. That
is why, in the name of equality among peoples and
nations, we make an urgent appeal for the readmission
of the Republic of China to the United Nations.
Turning to the question of Western Sahara,
Burkina Faso has always supported United Nations
initiatives and efforts here. Accordingly, the recent
plan proposed by Mr. James Baker, the Personal Envoy
of the Secretary-General, seems to us to be an
acceptable political compromise for a constructive
negotiating basis.
One activity that fuels and sustains conflicts and
serious banditry in the world is the manufacture, sale
and circulation of arms and anti-personnel mines.
Burkina Faso firmly supports the actions taken by the
United Nations aimed at reaching general and complete
disarmament, both at the level of weapons of mass
destruction and conventional weapons. As for
combating the proliferation of light weapons, in
addition to the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS) moratorium to which it subscribes,
Burkina Faso has set up a high authority responsible
for monitoring throughout our national territory the
import and use of weapons.
Africa has decided to further unite. It has decided
to bring closer together its peoples and economies and
to strengthen its partnership with other regions in order
to better integrate itself in the world economy. The
African Union was set up precisely to accomplish this
huge project. Burkina Faso reiterates here the appeal
made by the heads of State and Government of the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) for the effective
support of the international community for the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development.
The debate in the United Nations should enable
all Member States to express themselves and contribute
to the discussion on how best to meet the concerns of
humanity. All opinions must be heard and taken into
consideration. Decisions taken pursuant to the rules
3

must also be applied by each Member State. This is the
sine qua non requirement for achieving a viable new
international order based on a necessary dialogue
among civilizations and a culture of sharing and
solidarity. This new world order, in order to be more
just, has to be based on two basic concepts. First of all,
there should be a reform of the United Nations to
provide a more collective and democratic way of
managing the affairs of the world. Secondly, there
should be a more equitable distribution of the world’s
resources, through revision of trade mechanisms and
financing for development.
Turning to the reform of the Security Council,
Burkina Faso reaffirms Africa’s position, which
resulted from the Harare Summit, advocating equitable
representation of all regions of the world and
guaranteeing greater transparency and effectiveness for
the United Nations.
Our world is in constant flux. The ardent desire
for peace and security and the search for democracy
and well-being are, with each passing day, becoming
ever more rooted in people’s minds. During the past
few years, Burkina Faso has undertaken wide-ranging
political and economic reforms, which are in keeping
with the permanent validity of these universal values.
Politically, the reforms undertaken by the
Government, based on a consensus approach, have
enabled it to improve the institutional environment and
to meet the expectations of the political class and civil
society. This involves in particular the status of the
opposition, new voting procedures, the single-ballot
system, financing for political parties, trade unions and
the private press, and the creation of the Constitutional
Council, the State Council, the Appeals Court, the
State Audit Office and an independent national
electoral commission.
Economically speaking, the Government is
constantly struggling to improve the living conditions
of our people. Need I recall that destitution and poverty
are the first way we deny human rights. They deny
human beings their main raison d’être: their dignity.
Therefore, we have decided to stress the struggle
against poverty and exclusion by working out, with our
development partners, a strategic framework to fight
poverty.
In our global village, happiness for everyone is
possible. The best of possible worlds is within our
grasp. Scientific and technological progress means that
we can overcome the ills that beset humanity. We
simply need to unite, show solidarity and act together.









"
56,2001,KHM,"﻿I wish to join
other representatives in congratulating you, Sir, on
your unanimous election as President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. We are confident that
27

under your able guidance the work of this General
Assembly session will be another milestone on the new
international scene, particularly in confronting the new
challenges facing our world, especially after the
extremely tragic terrorist attacks of 11 September on
the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon
in Washington, D.C.
I believe that the world has completely changed
since the attacks against the United States of America,
the deadliest terrorist attacks ever committed, in which
so many innocent lives were lost. These acts of
terrorism shook the world as the images of destruction
were broadcast live. They were undoubtedly crimes
against humanity. We must strongly condemn these
terrorist acts. We cannot forget those who lost their
lives and the families of the victims. In this regard, I
wish to extend, on behalf of the people and the Royal
Government of Cambodia, our most sincere
condolences to the families of the innocent victims and
the Government of the United States of America.
Cambodia fully supports the United Nations
resolutions condemning the acts of terrorism against
the United States. Cambodia also fully endorses the
international efforts in combating terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations. Cambodia is disturbed,
however, over the loss of innocent civilian lives as a
result of the bombings in Afghanistan. We must do
everything possible to avoid civilian casualties and loss
of life.
In order to find solutions to the current problems
facing our world, I believe that we need to look into
not only the root causes of terrorism but also the other
contributing factors that are confronting the world
today. First, we need to look for a just and lasting
peace in the Middle East, in particular a solution to the
Palestine problem. We need to respect the fundamental
right of self-determination of the Palestinian people. In
this regard, Cambodia supports the creation of a
Palestinian State as early as possible. One may argue
that the present situation in the world may have opened
a window of opportunity for finding solutions to the
ongoing conflict in the Middle East. I believe that all
parties concerned should, and I hope that they will,
give peace in the region a chance, which is the way to
overcome the lingering conflict in the region.
Secondly, the increase in poverty in the world is
another crucial problem that must be addressed with
some sense of urgency and collective responsibility.
Poverty is unquestionably one of the major causes of
the problems in the world today. I think that all nations
must join hands to fight poverty throughout the world.
At the same time, we must work to reduce the
widening gap between the developed and developing
countries.
In this regard, it is important for us to recall last
year’s Millennium Declaration, whose main thrust was
a war on poverty in the most comprehensive and most
inclusive manner possible. For the developing
countries, one of the main challenges in the war on
poverty is managing the negative side of an irreversible
process of globalization. The key question is how to
best integrate ourselves into an ever-accelerating
process of globalization so that the developing
countries will not be left out or continue to be further
marginalized. The process of globalization is a reality
without precedent, and no country in this world is
immune to, or able to opt out of, the process.
At the same time, we should work collectively
towards minimizing the negative impact of
globalization, which would enable the developing
countries to pursue sustainable development and
poverty reduction and provide the necessary tools for
the people to improve their standards of living.
Moreover, we think that if there is no mechanism or
principle which is universally accepted in order to
manage globalization, the gap between the developed
and developing countries will further widen in the
future. This is a problem of human security, which the
international community must consider finding
appropriate ways and means of addressing.
Thirdly, another side effect of poverty is the
growing epidemic of HIV/AIDS worldwide, across
regions and continents, affecting mostly the poor and
the developing countries. Therefore, we believe that
the rich, developed countries should do more to help in
the fight against the global HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Fourthly, as a contributing factor for combating
terrorism, we should attempt to find practical solutions
to the growing threat of the proliferation of nuclear
weapons and the illegal trade of small arms and light
weapons around the globe. In this context, Cambodia
fully agrees with the Secretary-General’s statement at
the Millennium Summit that the issues of nuclear
weapons and illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons should be given the highest priority on the
United Nations agenda in the area of arms control and
28

disarmament. In this context, Cambodia wishes to call
upon all countries to respect all the nuclear-weapons-
related treaties, including the Anti-Ballistic Missile
(ABM) Treaty. Cambodia strongly believes that the
international community should work towards a
gradual reduction of nuclear stockpiles to a minimal
level, and non-proliferation and non-production of such
weapons in the future, which should be the basis for
building and maintaining a peaceful, safe and nuclear-
free world.
(spoke in French)
As a country that has suffered considerably from
the proliferation of small arms, Cambodia welcomes
the adoption of the Programme of Action at the
conclusion of the United Nations Conference on the
Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects. In this regard, I congratulate the United
Nations on taking bold steps in addressing this vitally
important issue. Since 1998, the Royal Government of
Cambodia has carried out a nationwide campaign to
address the problems regarding such arms. So far more
that 120,000 small arms and light weapons have been
confiscated, and more than 50 percent of them have
been destroyed in the framework of an operation
named “Flames for Peace.”
Fifthly, for the United Nations to play a greater
role in addressing the increasing number of complex
problems that are now arising, the Kingdom of
Cambodia is of the view that the General Assembly
and the Security Council must be reformed so that they
become more effective and more efficient. As we may
recall, one of the most important pledges contained in
last year’s Millennium Declaration was the
revitalization of the General Assembly. While progress
in the structural and procedural aspects of the General
Assembly are vitally important, we must not lose sight
of the primary objective of this exercise, which is to
return to the General Assembly its original function as
the chief deliberative and representative body of the
United Nations. In other words, the international
community, especially the United Nations as a whole,
must play a constructive and proactive role, without
exclusivity, including in the struggle against terrorism.
I also believe that the current global situation
justifies a call for a constructive and timely reform of
the Security Council, which must reflect the realities
and needs of the world today. The Security Council
must be reformed to be made more representative,
more democratic and more effective in its decision-
making processes. Its membership and structure,
passed down since 1945, are inarguably outdated and
no longer reflect the political, economic, social and
demographic realities of our time or, apparently, the
growing issues of human security.
As the United Nations Charter mandates the
Security Council’s responsibility in the maintenance of
international peace and security, it is important for us
to ensure that the interests of all nations are sufficiently
reflected in the Council’s composition and voting
procedures. It is unacceptable, however, that the two
thirds of the world’s population residing in the
developing countries are not equitably represented in
the Council. Such practices could jeopardize the
Council’s credibility in the maintenance of
international peace and security. In this regard,
Cambodia supports the decision of the non-aligned
countries in favour of an additional increase in the
number of permanent and non-permanent members and
in particular reiterates its strong support for Japan,
Germany and India as candidates for permanent
membership of the Security Council.
In conclusion, it is clear that we are living in a
fast-changing world in which the rapid pace of
globalization and growing interdependence are the
order of the day. Peace, stability and prosperity are
interrelated and affect all nations and peoples on this
planet, especially following the extremely tragic
terrorist attacks in September. It is therefore essential
that we work together to build a genuine community of
nations in which the gap between the developed and
the developing countries is reduced; in which the threat
of terrorism and nuclear annihilation are eliminated; in
which the danger of a global HIV/AIDS epidemic is
mitigated; and in which poverty is alleviated. This can
come about only through the development of a more
genuine cooperation, the fostering of enhanced mutual
respect, the cultivation of greater tolerance, the
promotion of better understanding and the emergence
of a broader spirit of true union among nations in a
world that works on behalf of all.
I strongly believe that we can achieve all this
through collective will and actions that will help us to
usher in a new and brighter future for our world — a
world free of terrorism, a world of stability, peace,
29

security, development and prosperity for all peoples in
the twenty-first century.

Finally, I am pleased to express, on behalf of the
Royal Government of Cambodia, our very warm
congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election to
a second term in the noble post of Secretary-General. I
do believe that, with his dedication and long-standing
experience in dealing with the many challenges faced
by the United Nations, the Secretary-General will
certainly achieve more success for the sake of peace
and stability for all nations Members of the United
Nations.





"
56,2001,PER,"﻿This is the first time I have had the privilege of
addressing this prestigious world forum. To arrive here,
I travelled a long road. I was born in a small village
high in the Andes, at an altitude of nearly 4,000 metres
above sea level. Like millions of brothers from our
continent of Latin America, I know first-hand the hard
face of poverty.
To survive, in my childhood, I sold newspapers,
lottery tickets and shined the shoes in which others
walked.
Today, I have come before this world assembly as
the constitutional President of Peru, bringing the
stories, the hopes and the dreams of millions of
Peruvians.
I come from a country that is heir to an ancient
culture and the cradle of great civilizations. I come to
lead our present with responsibility and to construct
our future with vision. Thus, in these few brief
minutes, I would like to share with the Assembly three
subjects that are of the greatest concern to my
Government:
First of all, I would like to be clear about one
thing: we are engaged in a head-on struggle against
terrorism and its perverse alliance with drug trafficking
and corruption. These are scourges for which there can
be no room for ambiguity. With the same
determination, however, I need to point out that the
world is facing the enormous challenge of mustering
the necessary clear vision so as not to put off the
human development agenda, which in large measure is
the underlying principle of the United Nations.
Secondly, there is the need to reduce military
expenditures in Latin America and in the world, so that
these resources can be channelled instead into a direct
fight against poverty.
Thirdly, we need to think and act together in
dealing with the world economic situation to protect
employment opportunities and income for the poorest.
There can be no real democracy without sustained
economic growth that will generate decent jobs.
Barely a year ago, Peru was enmeshed in a
dramatic struggle between a corrupt dictatorship and
the hopes for democracy of the vast majority of the
Peruvian people. Faced with this situation, we
Peruvians stood up and proved capable of mobilizing
ourselves and peacefully struggling to regain our
democracy and our freedom. On behalf of millions of
men and women of my country, I would like to thank
the peoples and Governments of the world for their
friendship, active role and solidarity in helping us
regain our democracy.
Today, Peru has now begun a new democratic
dawn. We are aware, however, that we have great
responsibilities. We must strengthen a full-fledged
democracy and our still fragile institutions and
reactivate our economy so as to achieve sustainable
growth that will generate decent and productive jobs.
We must strengthen our institutions and defeat poverty,
which form an indissoluble part of the same goal,
because poverty, corruption and drug trafficking
conspire against democracy. We can now declare, here
before the international community, that the time has
come to give a human face to globalization, so that
competitiveness becomes permanent.
We Peruvians have freshly inscribed in our
collective memory a horror of terrorism. During the 20
years of terror, Peru has lost 25,000 human lives, which
has cost more than $30 billion and has left the poor
even poorer. That is why I reaffirm our deep solidarity
with the people and Government of the United States in
the face of the insanity of terror of 11 September. This
was not an attack against the United States alone. It
was an attack against the peoples that believe in peace
and democracy, for all our differences of opinion.
We are determined to take unambiguous actions
to fight terrorism. We shall do so in the spirit of respect
for religious freedoms and ethnic identity. We will
actively contribute to the work that has been entrusted
to the ad hoc Committee of the Security Council,
making available to it the experts that may be
necessary to intelligently fight the threat of
international terrorism within the framework of the
principles of the Charter and the decisions of the
Security Council.
At an inter-American multilateral forum, we
made an effective contribution. This week we
introduced before the Organization of American States
a draft convention against terrorism. In keeping with
this purpose, this morning we deposited at the
Secretary-General’s office the following instruments:
the Statute of the International Criminal Court; the
9

International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Bombings; and the International Convention
for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism.
Thus, my country has become a party to all
international treaties against terrorism.
Our States must build up an extensive network of
obligations to effectively cooperate in the judicial,
police, information and financial fields to facilitate the
capture and extradition of the perpetrators of crimes
against humanity or of acts of corruption that lead to
such crimes. Human rights violations and corruption
are two sides of the same coin. They spell impunity.
It would not be possible to face up to corruption
without linking it with the fight against drug trafficking
and money laundering. We are working hard in this
regard. We have established high-level authorities
directly under the head of State to wage the fight
against drug trafficking and corruption.
I know that this is a decision that impinges upon
powerful interests. We shall not be swayed from our
determination. Peru is now seeking to re-establish
democracy to the fullest. We are aware, however, that
there are powerful forces hidden in the shadows,
which, with certain political accomplices, are trying to
achieve impunity for the corruption committed during
the decade of Montesinos and Fujimori. That is why,
addressing you from this prestigious forum, I call on
the international community not to allow, as the
globalization of justice process, for capricious
interpretation of certain national laws that trivialize
actions or allow for the granting of impunity.
There is no justification for a democratic
government to sacrifice development of the poor for
the sake of an arms race. Therefore, the second issue
central to our foreign policy is our proposal, which we
put to the Heads of State and Government of Latin
America, for an immediate freeze on the purchase of
offensive weapons in the region. We also seek an
agreement among the countries of Latin America to
reduce their military expenditures and to reorient their
financial resources towards investment in nutrition,
health and education.
Peru has recently achieved important agreements
on this issue with the brotherly countries of Chile and
Ecuador and is promoting an understanding among the
other countries of our region that will allow us to
embark together on the path towards the reduction of
poverty there. Peace is not only the silence of guns; it
should also mean dignity for the poor. This proposal is
aimed at the adoption of a broad regional framework to
reduce military spending. However, might we not also
consider expanding this proposal, which is not a new
one, to other regions around the globe? We must invest
in the great enterprise of knowledge — in the minds of
our people. That means investing more, and more
wisely, in nutrition, health and education.
The third item relates to our concern about the
global economy. We regret the onset of recession in the
most important developed economies, which is
shrinking markets, eliminating jobs and thus hindering
the implementation of the measures set out in the
Millennium Declaration. There is an urgent need to
control the damage being done to the poor economies
by the current global economic crisis. It is therefore
important that the next round of the World Trade
Organization not be an aseptic commercial round. It
should be a round on behalf of the poorest, avoiding
protectionist policies for the agricultural sector of the
industrialized countries and allowing the textile
industry to create good jobs in our countries.
I call on the people of the world to embark
unflinchingly and without fear on the path towards a
future of peace and democracy, without terrorism,
without violations of human rights and without
impunity. I am convinced that, together, we can build a
globalized, competitive yet united world with a human
face. In that respect, Peru assumes its responsibility
today before the General Assembly."
56,2001,MUS,"﻿Mr. President, it gives
me great pleasure to address this Assembly under your
able and distinguished leadership. May I, on behalf of
my delegation, take this opportunity to extend to you
our warmest congratulations on your election as
President of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. You may rest assured, Sir, of the fullest
support and co-operation of my delegation in the
daunting tasks that you will be called upon to confront
during your tenure.
I also avail myself of this opportunity to thank
Mr. Harri Holkeri for the excellent manner in which he
steered the work of the last session of the General
Assembly.
May I also congratulate a distinguished son of
Africa, our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his
unopposed election to a second term. The award of the
Nobel Peace Prize to him and to the United Nations
confirms the high esteem in which he and our
Organization are held.
As we gather in New York, the atrocities of 11
September remain fresh in our collective memory.
Allow me to pay a special tribute to the memory of the
thousands of innocent victims of the terrorist attacks on
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and in
Pennsylvania.
We condemn the attempts of the terrorists to
justify their acts as being in conformity with the tenets
of Islam. We do so because neither Islam nor any other
religion condones the killing of innocent civilians.
In order to preserve the lives of our citizens and
their way of life, we are bound to focus on the sequels
of those heinous terrorist attacks.
International terrorism must be fought with all the
means at our disposal. Terrorists know only one thing,
and that is destruction. While Mauritius is fully
committed to the global coalition against terrorism, we
urge the international community to take a long-term
view of international terrorism. Terrorism is the
greatest threat to international peace, security and
development.
We also believe that the war on terrorism must be
fought on the basis of principles and standards which
are accepted by every single State. Terrorism remains
terrorism, and there can be no justification for it at any
time or under any circumstances. We also consider that
cross-border terrorism has caused and is continuing to
cause immeasurable damage in many parts of the
Indian subcontinent and in Africa. We are convinced
that there must be no double or multiple standards in
the war against terrorism. In this context, we believe
that the International Criminal Court must become
14

operational at the earliest date, and countries which
rejected it in the past must review their stand.
We shall work closely with the Security Council
and the international community at large in order to
fully implement Security Council resolutions 1368
(2001) and 1373 (2001).
Together with the war on terrorism, we need to
wage many other wars, particularly in the light of the
Millennium Declaration adopted last year. We need to
pursue wars against poverty, ignorance, hunger and
underdevelopment. The war against the scourge of
HIV/AIDS is a war that we cannot afford to lose. It is
our belief that the international community must
remain focused on these issues, as they are very often
the breeding ground for dissent, crises, wars and
terrorism.
Peace and security will be in danger as long as
nuclear arsenals and weapons of mass destruction
continue to exist and proliferate. Now that terrorists
may get hold of or may already have in their
possession such weapons, it becomes extremely urgent
for the nuclear States to start meaningful discussions
on the elimination of these weapons within a specified
time frame.
With the conclusion of the recent United Nations
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and
Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, we need to move
towards early implementation of the measures
contained in its Programme of Action. For Africa, this
is a top priority. We are convinced that disarmament
cannot remain a slogan; it must be effectively
addressed.
Conflicts, wars and crises still persist in many
parts of the African continent and elsewhere,
particularly in the Balkans. Although we are
encouraged by the latest developments in Burundi and
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and by the
direct talks between Rwanda and Uganda to defuse
situations before they become explosive, we consider
that peace and security in Africa deserve the closer
involvement of the international community,
particularly in making available adequate financial
resources. We expect early and full deployment of the
third phase of the United Nations Organization Mission
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) in
keeping with the Security Council resolutions, and we
support the inter-Congolese dialogue.
We are grateful to African leaders like former
President Nelson Mandela, President Moi and former
President Masire for their commitment to ridding
Africa of conflicts and to paving the way for an
African economic take-off.
Mauritius is committed to a major reform of the
composition of the Security Council. We are convinced
that we should amend the Charter in a way that would
reflect the emergence of new power structures
justifying an expansion of the membership. Whatever
may be the criteria for an expanded membership, we
believe that India ought to become a permanent
member at the earliest opportunity. The expansion of
the Security Council, as well as a reassessment of the
absolutist veto, cannot be delayed any longer.
The birth of the African Union coincides with its
role as the engine to drive forward the process of the
New Partnership for African Development (NEPAD).
The New Partnership for African Development is a
road map for Africa to eradicate poverty and to achieve
the sustainable growth and development of the
continent, thereby allowing it to find its place in the
world economy. It is a call for a new relationship
between Africa and its partners.
We are mindful of the setback which the events of
11 September have caused to the major economies, but
we are also hopeful that the G-8 will remain committed
to providing to Africa all assistance for the effective
implementation of NEPAD.
Mauritius supports the liberalization of
international trade under the rules of the World Trade
Organization. We are, however, disappointed at the
lack of progress with regard to implementation issues
and the undertakings of the major trading countries
under previous Uruguay Round agreements. The terms
of trade as well as non-trade concerns are tilted too
much in favour of the developed countries, which are
still denying market access. Africa, which today
accounts for less than two per cent of global trade,
could, with the removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers
in the developed countries, significantly increase its
share of global trade and thus improve the standard of
living of its people. An increase in trade for Africa will
also mean a lesser dependence on aid.
While globalization throws up opportunities as
well as challenges, we also have to be conscious of its
negative aspects. We appeal for there to be no double
dealing in trade with poor countries.
15

The Small Island Developing States experience a
variety of inherent disadvantages. In their efforts to
achieve sustainable development and the need to
enhance their capabilities to function effectively within
the new globalized trading arrangements, my
delegation calls for the urgent and effective
implementation of the Programme of Action for
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States.
We welcome the statement by the United States
that it supports the creation of a Palestinian State. We
consider this to be a major step in the right direction
for the resolution of the Middle East crisis. We urge the
United States to be even-handed in its relations with
both Israel and the Palestinian Authority. We also
believe that the unilateral imposition of conditions
prior to the resumption of peace talks is unhelpful.
With the support of the international community, we
are confident that Israel and Palestine can, within the
framework of the Mitchell report and the Tenet plan,
work out a just and durable peace in which the States
of Israel and Palestine can live side by side, secure
within their respective boundaries.
In our region, the Southern African Development
Community  and the Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa (COMESA) are emerging as important
institutions integrating our economies. These initiatives
are helping the member States to better confront the
challenges of globalization. COMESA is the first
regional institution to have set up a free trade area.
These regional institutions also address issues of good
governance, as well as security and peace. We take an
interest in the domestic situation of our fellow
members inasmuch as whatever happens in one
member State inevitably impacts, negatively or
otherwise, on all member States.
We urge all parties to the Framework Agreement
for National Reconciliation to take all measures to
expedite the process towards the referendum in the
Comoros that will usher in a new constitution. Under
the aegis of the African Union, Mauritius is proposing
to host a donors’ meeting as soon as the Framework
Agreement is implemented.
We continue to claim our sovereignty over the
Chagos archipelago, which was excised by the United
Kingdom from the then colony of Mauritius in
violation of international law and of General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV). We are convinced that the time
for the United Kingdom to engage in talks for the early
retrocession of the archipelago to Mauritian
sovereignty is long overdue, inasmuch as problems left
over from colonial days cannot remain unresolved.
We are also concerned by the plight of all those
Mauritians, commonly known as the Ilois, who were
forcibly and in outright violation of their fundamental
rights removed from the islands forming the
archipelago by the then colonial Power. We support
their legitimate claim for all appropriate remedies.
With regard to Tromelin, I reiterate the position
of my delegation, as expressed in the General
Assembly last year, and once again call on the French
Government to enter into constructive negotiations for
the settlement of this issue.
As I speak here, bombs are still falling over
Afghanistan. We are aware that the living conditions of
the civilian population are difficult. We deplore the
loss of civilian lives. We are confident, however, that
the international community will rise to the occasion in
providing all humanitarian assistance to the needy in
Afghanistan. We are hopeful that the efforts under way
to install a broad-based Government in Afghanistan
will be successful.
The Conference of Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change in
Morocco, the World Food Summit in Rome, the
discussions on trade issues in Doha and a host of other
meetings in recent days demonstrate the close
dependence that we have on each other. No country can
afford to go it alone and the many problems that we
face today must be faced by us all in a spirit of
solidarity, cooperation and mutual accommodation. We
need to be continually engaged and to collaborate so
that never again does humanity live the extremely
painful moments that it lived after 11 September.
The United Nations is the forum to address all
our concerns and we are sure that all countries,
regardless of their might, understand that there can be
no substitute for the rule of law, good governance,
democracy and respect for the dignity and rights of the
individual. We do recognize the threats posed by
international terrorism and we are all prepared to do
whatever has to be done to combat it. It is our hope that
this togetherness will not be frittered away when the
threat and the danger have disappeared. The world has
walked away on too many occasions in the past. From
16

now on, we have to walk together and pave the way for
a better world.

"
56,2001,BGD,"﻿I wish warmly to
congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on his unanimous
election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We
share the conviction that he will infuse the work of the
Assembly with dynamism and a new perspective.
I also join in the warm tributes paid to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri. We congratulate
Secretary-General Kofi Annan and his staff on having
been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for 2001. He has
brought honour to us all. His re-election to a second
term is a just tribute to his dedication, commitment and
sheer hard work.
The catastrophe of 11 September has scarred us
all deeply. It has brought irrevocable change and
inevitable hardship. Yet it has honed and hardened a
common resolve, a steely determination to confront and
condemn all such irrational and mindless acts of
violence. Bangladesh stands committed to fight against
terrorism, in all its forms and manifestation, by
whoever and wherever it is committed. We believe that
terrorism hampers peace and security and creates
political chaos and economic instability around the
world.
We have therefore pledged total support for the
concerted efforts of the international community to
confront this scourge as best, as quickly and as
comprehensively as we can. We have initiated the
process of identifying any possible administrative or
financial focus or network of suspected terrorists. We
have not given, and will not give, any form of
sanctuary, training or support to any kind of terrorist
group or cell. We are responding to the call of the
Secretary-General and working towards becoming a
party to a number of United Nations anti-terrorist
instruments. We already subscribe to the 1987 South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
Convention on Suppression of Terrorism and believe
that it has scope for further strengthening.
As a member of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference (OIC), we support, and will actively
participate in, efforts to reach an agreement on the
early completion and adoption of a comprehensive
convention to combat terrorism. We hope that an
inclusive approach will be taken that will unite us all in
our common struggle against terrorism.
We are aware that terrorism has no consistent
profile and that it has many variables reflecting the
increasing complexity of human society. But this much
is certain: we know what it is not. We must emphasize
and underscore emphatically the fact that terrorism has
no connection to any one religion or to any particular
41

region of the world. It is a global phenomenon and
should be addressed as such. We therefore welcome
President Bush's statement to the General Assembly, at
the 44th meeting on 10 November, during which he
quoted the sheikh of Al-Azhar University, the world's
oldest Islamic institution of higher learning, as having
declared that terrorism is a disease and that Islam
prohibits killing innocent civilians.
Previous speakers have underlined the fact that
the spotlight on terrorism should not blind us to the
pursuit of other pressing objectives. Indeed, terrorism
is but one aspect of the many negative forces that shape
the substance of what we call globalization, including
drugs, organized crime, the illicit transfer of small
arms, money-laundering, environmental degradation,
and the new diseases that have invaded all societies.
Many have intrinsic interlinkages, and none respect
borders. They call for collective approaches and
concerted global action.
On the positive side, two crucial forces have
impelled globalization  mass consciousness of
individual rights and the impact of science and
technology. The push for individual rights,
humanitarian concerns and a burgeoning new
humanitarian law are reflected in the worldwide sweep
of democracy. Advances in science and technology
have closed the information and communications gap.
Together, these forces have changed the nature of our
world, challenged the context and meaning of
sovereignty, and brought about a need for new and
dynamic approaches.
The radical changes that came in the wake of the
end of the cold war coincided in Bangladesh with the
overthrow of military dictatorship in 1990 and the
advent of democracy. Since then, Bangladesh has held
in succession three general elections that have been
acclaimed by all impartial observers, both local and
foreign, as being eminently free and fair. We have the
unique distinction of being the only parliamentary
democracy in which elections are constitutionally
carried out by an interim caretaker government within
a 90-day period.
The roots of democracy have taken hold and have
spread far and wide. Today, despite all of Bangladesh's
limitations due to poverty, its people have
demonstrated unequivocally that they are a functioning,
moderate, modernizing Muslim country. The most
recent elections, held on 1 October 2001, had a voter
turnout of 75 per cent of an electorate of over 70
million people. What was extraordinary was the
unprecedented number of women who freely exercised
their right of franchise.
In an overwhelming demonstration of support, the
people have returned the four-party alliance led by
Prime Minister Begum Khaleda Zia to power, with
more than two-thirds majority seats in the Bangladesh
Parliament. This is an outstanding endorsement of, and
triumph for, democracy. It also imposes a huge burden
of responsibility on the Government to measure up to
this massive mandate.
The Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Begum
Khaleda Zia, has responded firmly. The new
Government is committed to consolidating and
developing a sustainable structure of democracy with
the participation of the opposition. The primary focus
is to restore law and order and to ensure social peace,
harmony and justice, so as to improve our capacity to
fight poverty, illiteracy and underdevelopment. Four
factors pace the economic agenda: reducing poverty,
raising rural productivity, boosting trade and
encouraging investment.
In pursuing these key factors, the Government
will refine its already established four-fold strategy of
1991-1996: encouraging macroeconomic reform,
stimulating the private sector, enhancing the quality
and quantity of development expenditure and
concentrating on the quality, not quantity, of
investment. There will be a cardinal push for
aggressive economic diplomacy in the wake of
globalization, which has called for closer interaction
between domestic and foreign policy and which has
triggered intense competition for greater access to
markets, the flow of resources and investments, the
transfer of technology and employment opportunities
abroad.
In the pursuit of the pre-eminent objective of
alleviating poverty, a key concern remains to place
people at the centre of all public policies.
In the field of foreign policy, a fundamental
charge remains that of reinforcing mutual, beneficial
and cooperative relations with all countries and the
consolidation of our image abroad as a responsible,
stable, moderate, democratic and contributing member
of the world community.
42

Our unwavering policy is to maintain close and
friendly relations with our neighbours on the basis of
equality, mutual respect, non-interference in internal
affairs and the settlement of outstanding bilateral issues
through dialogue and negotiation. It is a matter of some
gratification that, close on the heels of the formation of
the new Government, special envoys of the leaders of
both India and Pakistan visited Bangladesh as a
goodwill gesture to renew and reinvigorate ties.
In our region, a priority objective will be to
revitalize the momentum and credibility of the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC).
It is a matter of particular satisfaction that the stalled
twelfth SAARC Summit will now be taking place 4-6
January 2002 in Kathmandu, Nepal. It is of vital
importance that this first millennium summit of South
Asian leaders forge a new vision for the future of the
region that will encompass promotion of not only its
socio-economic mandate, but also the reduction of
tension, the normalization of relations and the creation
of a broader-based climate of confidence-building.
Bangladesh believes that the most compelling
security challenge facing South Asia is promoting
sustainable growth, reform and development.
Nuclearization in South Asia has, if anything, enhanced
security concerns in the region. Bangladesh adheres to
the belief that security goes beyond the weapons a
nation possesses and extends to raising living standards
and building stable and healthy democracies. The link
between development and security is thus crucial in
South Asia. This was the underlying rationale of
SAARC. The guiding motivation  as enunciated by
the late President Ziaur Rahman  was to visibly
improve the quality of life of the common people in an
environment of peace.
In the global context, a cardinal priority for
Bangladesh will be to play an active role through
concrete initiatives in all socio-economic forums, to
promote the cause of developing countries as a whole
and the least developed in particular and, especially, to
keep alive special treatment for the poorest of the poor.
A fundamental objective for Bangladesh
consistent with our Constitution is to strengthen the
role of the United Nations as the central organ for the
cooperative management of the world's problems.
Bangladesh will continue to actively contribute to the
peaceful settlement of disputes, to bolster collective
security and peace-building. Our commitment to
peacekeeping remains firm and has manifested itself in
the participation of Bangladeshi military and civilian
contingents in many areas of simultaneous conflicts.
We are immensely proud to be currently the largest
contributor among blue helmets, serving in ten United
Nations missions. In the field of peacekeeping, we
believe that the recommendations of the Brahimi Panel
provide a good basis, and we feel that the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) should be
equipped adequately to handle such a requirement.
Bangladesh strongly believes that the issue of
representation of troop-contributing countries in the
military, civilian police and diplomatic components in
the DPKO and in other departments, as well as in the
mission headquarters, should be seriously considered in
the context of the proposed expansion scheme.
Bangladesh's term in the Security Council is now
about to come to an end. We have sought to live up to
our responsibility with pragmatism and moderation. We
have tried to make the work of the Council more
transparent, open and proactive and to develop an
effective interface between the Council and the general
membership to reflect the aspirations of all on issues of
common interest.
Today, certain issues both political and economic
have assumed centre stage, and our attention is
telescoped upon them. Prime among them is the
situation in Afghanistan. Bangladesh is a part of the
international coalition that seeks to establish a stable,
durable, social, political and economic structure in
Afghanistan as soon as possible. It is our hope that the
Afghan people will have a true opportunity to choose
their own system of governance in line with human
values and democratic practices in a post-Taliban
dispensation. Such a Government should be broad-
based, multi-ethnic, demographically and equitably
representative, responsive to the needs of the Afghan
people and acceptable to the people of Afghanistan, the
neighbourhood and the international community. We
welcome efforts to focus on positive and finite
solutions to the problems of Afghanistan, especially
efforts being made with the assistance of the United
Nations for forming an interim transitional Government
acceptable to the Afghan people. We also welcome two
key projects: first, a massive reconstruction and
rehabilitation plan and efforts to mobilize funding;
second, a hard focus on ways and means to facilitate
the return of the refugees. Of immediate importance is
the vast humanitarian tragedy in Afghanistan, the need
43

to contain and minimize the loss of human life and to
reach out with immediate relief to refugees and
displaced persons.
While new threats to peace, security and
economic stability are emerging, the old ones remain.
Occupation, inter-State and intra-State conflicts,
particularly in the Middle East, Africa and the Balkans,
continue to threaten regional and global peace and
stability. We are particularly concerned at the steady
deterioration of the situation in Palestine, arising out of
the encroachment on Palestinian territories and the
collective punishment meted out to the Palestinians.
Bangladesh will continue to maintain its unflinching
support of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian
people to an early establishment of a State of their own
with Jerusalem as its capital.
Poverty today remains the pre-eminent moral
and humanitarian challenge of our age and hence
needs to be tackled with due priority. The Secretary-
General has reminded us of the commitments made by
our leaders during the Millennium Summit last year to
eradicate this scourge.
The role of external financial support in the
development process has assumed greater importance
by virtue of the fact that better education, knowledge,
skill and awareness must be effectively integrated into
the global economic and market mechanism. In this
context, we look forward to the Monterrey
International Conference on Financing for
Development in March 2002.
Over the last few decades, access to global
markets has been seriously limited for the products of
the developing countries in general and the least
developed countries (LDCs) in particular. In this
context, Bangladesh calls upon development partners
to create more access for trade, including offering
duty-free, quota-free access to products from the LDCs
on a secure, long-term and predictable basis with
realistic and flexible rules of origin to match the
industrial capacity of the LDCs. We are hopeful that
the current Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade
Organization in Doha will be able to effectively focus
on the obligations to implement the commitments made
earlier during the Uruguay Round of negotiations. Debt
repayment is also an enormous burden on the
developing countries, particularly on the LDCs. We
urge the developed countries to expand the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) facility to include
more indebted developing countries, with particular
focus on the LDCs.
Bangladesh is committed to strengthening and to
following up on many ideas to bolster the United
Nations capacity to lead, especially that of the General
Assembly. Bangladesh strongly supports the idea of
forging better coordination between the major organs
of the United Nations, namely the General Assembly,
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council,
for working out a long-term strategy for sustainable
peace and development.
In conclusion, I would like to say that it is not the
lack of resources that prevents the promotion of a
collective and shared perspective on common
challenges. What we perhaps need is to muster the
determination and courage to build up a collective and
inclusive approach for undertaking pragmatic and
forward-looking actions. The challenges of the twenty-
first century remind us once again that we must seek
harmony through diversity, peace through dialogue,
and prosperity through mutual cooperation. The United
Nations offers the most appropriate and central
mechanism to promote our best aspirations and
objectives. The journey to peace has always been
arduous; nonetheless, it is the longing for peace,
progress and justice that has inspired us to work for our
better tomorrow.



"
56,2001,FRA,"﻿At the
outset, it is a great pleasure for me to congratulate the
President on his election, which is a sign of the esteem
in which he and his country are held.
Coming after his re-election to a second term ─
which is a sign of the general confidence he has
earned ─ the Nobel Peace Prize that has been awarded
to the Secretary-General is a well-deserved tribute to
his work and, through him, to the United Nations
Organization as a whole, thereby inspiring greater hope
than ever before.
On this my third visit to New York since the
tragedy of 11 September, I also want to express once
again my profound emotion and pay homage to the
people of New York, who are being so severely tested,
and to their courageous mayor, who is now finishing
his term.
The unprecedented magnitude and gravity of the
terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on 11
September warrant our unfailing solidarity and an
exceptional response. In its resolution 1368 (2001),
which was adopted unanimously, the Security Council
rightly qualified those acts as attacks and, hence, as
legitimately meriting a defensive response under
Article 51 of the Charter. The United States is thus
entirely within its legal and political rights in carrying
out its targeted military response against the terrorist
organizations responsible for those acts. The military
action under way was therefore inevitable, and must be
pursued until all its objectives have been achieved.
Given the preliminary results achieved yesterday, I
hope that those objectives will be met as soon as
possible. The leaders of these terrorist networks and
those who support them must be decisively prevented
from committing further harm.
But that military action should, as a matter of
course, form part of an overarching strategy that
includes immediate, broad-scale humanitarian action
that is better adapted to the needs of people in distress.
France has put forward several proposals in this regard
and supports the current initiatives for better
coordination. That overarching strategy should also
include a political solution — something that has now
become urgent — and strive to ensure that the demise
of the Taliban regime does not lead to factional
infighting and chaos; and it must once again make the
Afghan people masters of their own future. That is the
aim of the action plan for Afghanistan that France
proposed back on 1 October, and of the other
contributions it has made with the same goals in mind.
We await Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi’s proposals with
interest; they should set forth broad outlines of action
for the United Nations. On these bases, the Security
Council should be able to adopt a framework resolution
within a few days, endorsing Mr. Brahimi’s proposals
and spelling out the modalities of United Nations
support for the establishment of an Afghan
26

Government representative of the various constituents
of the population. There is no question of imposing on
Afghanistan some ready-made solution concocted by
outsiders. I call on all the constituents of the Afghan
nation and all neighbouring countries to heed the
general interest of Afghanistan and its people. This is
compatible with respect for the legitimate interests of
the various parties concerned and it is the only way to
turn our backs on the past.
Beyond immediate military, diplomatic and
humanitarian action, our common fight against
terrorism needs to be pursued in all its forms, including
police, judicial and others. The United Nations will
have a crucial role to play in this difficult struggle,
laying down universal obligations for each State and
the framework for our action. A series of conventions
has already been concluded, particularly the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism, which I proposed in this very
place in 1999. We must speed up the signature and
ratification of those conventions. The General
Assembly must quickly conclude the negotiations on
the comprehensive convention on international
terrorism. For its part, the Security Council should
oversee the coordinated implementation by States of its
resolution 1373 (2001).
Action against terrorism also needs to be carried
out through other organizations, in conjunction with
the United Nations and consistent with its policies. For
its part, the European Union (EU) has just taken
unprecedented steps to strengthen police and judicial
cooperation among its member States, including the
creation of a European arrest warrant. An ambitious
action plan has been agreed. The 29 members of the
Financial Action Task Force (FATF) have decided to
extend the fight against money-laundering to the fight
against the financing of terrorism. Beyond that, I
propose the creation of a dialogue forum to move us in
this direction. Several other organizations, too, will
have a role to play, so that at the end of the day every
country will be making a contribution.
Leaving aside the hoped-for short-term results,
the obstacles notwithstanding, we will not achieve
lasting victory against all forms of terrorism unless we
succeed in depriving terrorists of their breeding ground
and eliminating the pretexts from which they
fallaciously draw their justification, and unless we
eradicate them in the true sense of the term. That
implies nothing short of changing our world. And let
no one claim that this would be tantamount to
justifying the terrorists. For neither my country, nor
Europe, nor the United Nations — in other words, none
of us — waited for 11 September to discover, condemn
and seek to remedy the ills of the world. Yet how many
good intentions have come to naught? How many
resolutions have gone unimplemented? How many
announcements have failed to materialize, which now
feed a sense of bitterness and incomprehension? It is
pointless to condemn or deny the theory of a clash of
civilizations. Rather, we must fight against such a risk,
which is by no means wholly imaginary, and against
those who would make it a reality.
This should be one more pressing reason for us
all to find a solution to regional crises, particularly in
the Middle East. Since 1982, France has called for the
creation of a Palestinian State. Naturally, it would have
to be viable, democratic and peaceful, and it should
give credible undertakings as regards Israel’s security.
Guarantees will be needed, yet the Palestinian State is
not the problem; it is the solution for reasons based on
rights, humanity and security. Such is the EU’s
common stance today. This morning, before the
Assembly, President Bush himself has made this his
objective. It is the path of reason — the only path that
can halt the murderous spiral of conflict between the
two peoples.
Admittedly, responsibility for a lasting peace
agreement lies first and foremost with the protagonists.
Unless they make the move, no one else will be able to
overcome their fears and resentment and put an end to
the suffering of these two peoples. Yet, the increasing
threat that this conflict poses to international peace and
security requires that those who have the will and the
means join forces in a push for peace, given that the
main players are evidently unable to do so unaided.
The urgency of the situation in the Near East
obviously should not make us forget Iraq. Regional
security still needs to be secured by restoring an
international monitoring capability and by alleviating
the suffering of the Iraqi people through the lifting of
the embargo on civilian goods. I hope the discussions
now in progress in the Security Council will finally
bring this about.
Nor should we forget the Caucasus, where ancient
quarrels live on and where new ones are rising to the
fore. Yet, here again there is no other way than to seek
negotiated political solutions.
27

In the Balkans, we realized that international
involvement must be sustainable. Thanks to it, and
thanks to new leaders, noteworthy progress has been
achieved towards democracy, reconciliation and
regional cooperation over the last two years. We must
make sure these positive changes are not challenged by
outmoded patterns of behaviour. We must maintain and
pursue the Europeanization of the Balkans.
Turning to the Great Lakes region, we know that
the lasting resolution of the conflict, which involves
more than eight countries, will be a negotiated solution
that will ensure the restoration of the sovereignty of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and include as well
safeguard clauses to protect the security of each of the
States. The Lusaka Agreement and the relevant
Security Council resolutions provide the framework for
ending this crisis, but they should be applied as quickly
as possible. To halt the illegal use of the resources of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which often
occurs in association with forced child labour, should
be an immediate priority.
In all the cases I have just referred to briefly —
and there are others — the problem we have to resolve
is the coexistence of peoples who are at once close and
antagonistic, deeply affected and divided by history
and separated by fear and the spirit of revenge. We will
achieve this only through perseverance and a clear
understanding of each particular situation, guided by
the principles of the United Nations.
Even if we managed to resolve all these regional
crises and others as well, our task would still not be
over because, at the global level, the gulf between
intentions for the world as stated at international
meetings and actual realities is becoming intolerable
for many peoples. We must redouble our efforts to
create humane globalization. We saw this in Seattle, we
saw it in Genoa, and even more so in Durban. We can
see it in the reactions to the Afghan crisis and to many
other issues. Despite the United Nations and our good
resolutions, there is still no real universal consensus.
What we call “the international community” has yet to
be built. Is this a reason to throw in the towel? To the
contrary – absolutely not. France has long been
determined to add its stone to this edifice. We have
already put forward numerous proposals to that end and
will continue to do so, with increased conviction.
Need I recall our well-known major objectives for
the world?
First, we must achieve a fairer distribution of
wealth; 3 billion people currently live on less than 2
dollars per day, and the global income gap between the
richest and the poorest has doubled over the last 40
years.
Second, we must end impunity.
Third, we must guarantee sustainable
development everywhere — “sustainable”, that little
word that makes all the difference, or which should
make all the difference. The World Summit in
Johannesburg in September 2002 will provide an
opportunity to affirm a vision and a benchmark of
development based on three intimately linked pillars:
economic, social and environmental.
Fourth, we must help refugees and fully respect
the right of asylum.
Fifth, we must manage population movements in
a humanitarian manner.
Sixth, we must draft international standards in a
democratic way to ensure that they are entirely
legitimate and that everyone will consequently be
bound to comply with them.
Seventh, we must no longer tolerate situations of
human distress. State sovereignty, which remains an
essential feature of the international system, cannot, in
extreme emergencies, be regarded as an absolute
principle serving as a pretext for inaction. The Security
Council must be able to fully assume its
responsibilities in cases of gross human rights
violations, for these also pose threats to international
peace and security.
Eighth, we must aim at promoting balanced and
negotiated disarmament, which strengthens security
and strategic stability.
Ninth, we must strive to allow all languages,
cultures and civilizations to exist while maintaining a
dialogue with one another.
Tenth, we must seek to improve the state of
health worldwide, which for one thing means devoting
more resources to combating HIV/AIDS. I would hope
that the new Global AIDS and Health Fund will be
made operational by the beginning of 2002.
But we are undoubtedly now more aware than in
recent years that the attainment of these objectives,
which are both indispensable, and very ambitious, calls
28

different rules and different mechanisms, starting with
the reform and enlargement of the Security Council,
which we have waited for all too long; with respect for
the role of the General Assembly; with the ratification
of the major multilateral instruments — I am thinking
of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and
the Kyoto Protocol, among others; with a more
appropriate and less indiscriminate use of sanctions
when they are needed; with a clarification of the
respective and legitimate roles of Governments and
civil society; with an agreement on the modalities of
interference to deal with large-scale and extreme
emergency situations; with a regulation and
development round at the World Trade Organization
(WTO), which is starting today in Doha; with closer
cooperation and greater consistency between the WTO
and the International Labour Organization; with the
creation of a world environmental organization; and
with reform of the international financial institutions. I
shall stop this list here. I could go on, for there is so
much that remains to be done.
All of us, as Members of the United Nations, are
faced with this challenge. But I do not hesitate to say
here that the rich countries — in other words, the West
and a handful of other countries from the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, where
some 1.135 billion men and women live, have even
more responsibility than others. Now that the illusions
of the last 10 years have been dispelled, the choice
before us is harsh, but clear: either a world so unjust
that we have conflict with no foreseeable end, or, on
the contrary, an international community of the United
Nations, at last worthy of the name, to solve together
humanity’s common problems and ensure its future.
But building this community, instead of just talking
about it or yearning for it, will mean for some of us
giving up privileges, sharing wealth and power in new
ways, and rewriting certain rules hitherto held to be
inviolable. As the Nobel Prize-winning economist
Joseph Stiglitz has written, free trade was designed by
Western countries for the Western countries. This is
debatable, of course, but none of this will happen
without sacrifices, above all on the part of the rich and
powerful countries.
At this very moment, a reshuffling of diplomatic
cards on a grand scale is under way between the United
States, Russia, China, Europe, the Arab or Muslim
world, the other coalition partners, the rest of the world
and the United Nations. I hope — I truly hope — that
this will help to bring about a vital awakening and that
my country, Europe and the United Nations will follow
new avenues, in deeds and not just words, and that all
of us, together, will successfully extend the needed
coalition against terrorism to turn it into a coalition for
an equitable world, and that this will lay the
groundwork for a renewal of the international system.






"
56,2001,ISL,"﻿Once again, we have
witnessed a terrible incident in the neighbourhood of
the United Nations here in New York. Although we do
not know the circumstances, we are shocked, and it is
clear that many have lost their lives. I express my
sincere condolences to all those who have lost their
loved ones in this tragic incident.
20

Allow me to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly.
I am confident that he will guide us wisely through the
complex tasks ahead of us in this session.
The ability of the United Nations to act swiftly in
response to acute crisis was seriously tested following
the terrorist attacks on the United States. During these
trying times, it has been valuable to have at the helm a
Secretary-General who enjoys such wide support.
Let me congratulate the Secretary-General and
the United Nations on being awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize — in my view, a well-deserved recognition of
Kofi Annan’s leadership and of the dedication he and
his staff have put into upholding the purposes and
principles of the United Nations Charter. Hopefully, the
award will serve as an inspiration as well as strengthen
worldwide support for the United Nations and what it
stands for.
The tragic events of 11 September have radically
challenged and changed our security environment.
Fighting terrorism should therefore become a priority
of the United Nations. We recognize that the United
Nations has long been active in the fight against
international terrorism, but we now need to go beyond
political statements and become truly operational. This
means developing new methods and, at the same time,
making full use of all the means at the disposal of the
United Nations system, the truly global character of the
Organization and the numerous international legal
instruments available to us.
Iceland strongly supports the creation of a
comprehensive convention on international terrorism
and hopes that an agreement can be reached on such an
instrument during the fifty-sixth session. Otherwise, we
will lose the opportunity to develop the coherent
strategy lacking today. We cannot fail to react.
The key role the United Nations should play in
fighting international terrorism must be an impetus to
us to intensify our efforts to achieve a comprehensive
reform of the Security Council in all its aspects.
Iceland is seriously concerned about the slow progress
made towards reaching this goal. It is essential and
timely that the membership of the Council becomes
more representative, and thus more likely to sustain the
present international coalition in the fight against
terrorism. It goes without saying that the efficiency of
the Council must be secured. Enhancing transparency
in the decision-making process is also of importance,
especially for non-member States.
One of the main purposes of the United Nations is
to promote and encourage respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to
race, sex, language or religion. This continues to be of
the utmost importance. Let me therefore make it
absolutely clear that the fight against terrorism is not,
and must not become, a fight against any religious or
ethnic group. We must avoid all forms of
discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance. Most
importantly, we must at all times adhere to the basic
values of human rights, freedom and democracy.
Turning to the actions at the national level,
Iceland is taking the necessary steps to ratify all
relevant United Nations conventions against terrorism
that we have not already ratified. Furthermore, Iceland
has implemented all relevant Security Council
resolutions, including resolution 1373 (2001). But in
fighting the menace of international terrorism — a
fight that we all agree needs to be both wide-ranging
and forceful — we must, at the end of the day, not in
any way undermine the basic values of our societies —
those of human rights, the rule of law, and democracy.
We need to strike a balance between freedom and the
security measures we opt for.
Uprooting terrorism in the world must go hand in
hand with solving regional conflicts that threaten
international peace and security. This is particularly
true for the Middle East. By prolonging the violence
and refusing to negotiate, both sides play into the
hands of extremist elements that want neither a
continuation of the peace process nor a political
solution to the Middle East conflict. Both parties have
to resume negotiations unconditionally. That is the only
way to secure lasting peace in the region, which should
be based upon the establishment of a viable and
democratic Palestinian State and on the right of the
Israelis to live in peace and security within
internationally recognized borders. A continuation of
the present dire conditions cannot be tolerated any
longer.
I said earlier that the events of 11 September have
made United Nations reforms even more urgent. The
same is true for the ongoing work to strengthen the
peacekeeping capabilities of the United Nations. Until
now, Iceland’s participation in United Nations
peacekeeping operations has been modest. My country
21

has participated in peacekeeping by providing civilian
personnel such as gender experts and police and health
professionals. With the changing and more complex
nature of peacekeeping, the need for civilian personnel
has been increased. The Icelandic Government decided
last year systematically to increase its contribution to
peacekeeping. Our aim is to provide more personnel to
the United Nations, as well as to the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European
Union.
By adopting resolution 1325 (2000) last year, on
women, peace and security, the Security Council
recognized the importance of incorporating a gender
perspective into peacekeeping operations. When the
United Nations becomes involved in peace-building
and reconstruction in Afghanistan we have to make
sure that resolution 1325 (2000) is honoured in the
process, for the benefit of Afghan women and, as a
result, for the Afghan population as a whole. The
United Nations must play a key role in the nation-
building process in Afghanistan. Iceland stands ready
to contribute civilian experts should the United Nations
become involved in a post-conflict operation.
Next year, 10 years will have passed since world
leaders met at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. We
are asked, what has been accomplished in this past
decade to secure the prosperity of future generations in
harmony with nature? The truth is that there has been
rather little progress and that we face enormous tasks.
The world community will look towards the World
Summit on Sustainable Development, in Johannesburg,
for further commitments by all nations.
In that context, I would like to quote Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, who in his opening remarks at the
44th meeting, last Saturday, said
“We must put the issue of sustainability where it
belongs, in the centre of the policy-making
process.”
It is therefore imperative that we renew our strong
commitment to sustainable development at the
Johannesburg Summit. We are faced with new
challenges, but also with new opportunities, namely, to
build a global partnership to harness the forces of
globalization in favour of sustainable development.
The world community has just achieved, in
Marrakech, a milestone agreement on the
implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto
negotiations have been especially difficult. Now we
have reached the moment when we can bring the
Protocol into force. But more needs to be done to
include other key emitters of greenhouse gases in the
battle against climate change.
In the area of oceans — the foundation of human
life — we have made some progress. We have adopted
significant agreements, and we are looking at ways to
improve the assessment of the state of the oceans in
order to further enhance marine protection and
management. New knowledge and new approaches are
also evolving, thus providing the world community
with opportunities to improve protection of the oceans
and the sustainable use of their living resources.
Last October, Iceland, in cooperation with the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations and Norway, hosted the Reykjavik Conference
on Responsible Fisheries in the Marine Ecosystem. In a
document adopted by the Conference, States declared
that they would incorporate ecosystem considerations
into fisheries management with the aim of reinforcing
responsible and sustainable fisheries in the marine
ecosystem. This Reykjavik Declaration is a landmark
contribution of the fisheries nations to the World
Summit on Sustainable Development. We trust that we
will see the spirit of the Declaration reflected in the
results of the World Summit in Johannesburg.
The time has come for a unified effort by political
leaders, as well as by civil society and the private
sector, to reverse the trend of marginalization and
underdevelopment. That is why the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
in Mexico next year, offers an unprecedented
opportunity to make a real difference in the lives of
millions of people throughout the developing world.
The outcome of the Conference should focus on the
great challenge of poverty eradication, as well as on
how responsibilities between the developed and
developing countries should be shared. We should,
however, never lose sight of each State’s primary
responsibility for its own development. The importance
of responsible national governance and respect for
human rights cannot be overstated.
My focus, like that of many speakers before me,
has been on the fight against international terrorism.
Fighting international terrorism involves all States and
international as well as regional organizations. We
22

must concentrate on the available instruments of each
organization and find ways to adjust them as necessary.
Furthermore, we need to ensure consistency and
complementarity of international efforts.
The malicious acts of 11 September and the latest
shocking news of the suspicion of biological terrorism
demonstrate that all of our concerted efforts are not
only necessary but also crucial to fulfilling our duty to
protect the lives of our citizens.
The United Nations was founded to preserve
peace and to work for a better world. Terrorists are
fighting against everything the United Nations stands
for. Fighting against them means fighting for the
United Nations, for the future of our civilization and
for all humankind.





"
56,2001,GUY,"﻿Although the embers
from the towering infernos which resulted from the
attacks on 11 September have not fully died, it may
nevertheless be possible to analyse the impact which
that horrific disaster has had on international relations
and, more particularly, the political, economic, and
social consequences which it is likely to have for the
world. Such an analysis, it is to be hoped, will instruct
us on how we may best respond to these new
challenges and pursue the twin goals of global peace
and development in this new, twenty-first century.
Mr. President, it augurs well that this examination
will be conducted under your guidance, since, coming
as you do from the land of the morning calm, you will
no doubt bring to bear on our debate not only a fresh
and dispassionate view, but also a ray of hope after the
long dark night through which we have just passed. My
delegation offers you our warmest congratulations and
good wishes as you continue to preside over the work
of this historic General Assembly, which, though
inaugurated in the depths of despair, may yet hold out
the promise of salvation for mankind.
It would be remiss of me were I not also to
extend our gratitude to your distinguished predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, who presided with great verve and
vigour over the Assembly through very difficult and
interesting times. He has contributed much to the
revitalization of the General Assembly.
To the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, I
convey our greetings and commendation for his sure
and steady leadership of our Organization. The recent
award of the Nobel Peace Prize to him and the United
Nations is a source of great satisfaction and pride for
Guyana and, indeed, for the entire membership of this
body.
As was so aptly stated by the Economist of 15
September, the terrorist attack on the United States
altered the geopolitical landscape as indelibly as it did
the Manhattan skyline. The world is a changed place
since that horrendous event, changed in that we
suddenly find, under threat, by unorthodox and hitherto
unimaginable means, the values by which our
Organization is driven, values the attainment of which
have been the object of our onerous and protracted
labours for a period extending over many decades. We
cannot help but feel a sense of sorrow and shame that
such a barbaric act — as the destruction of the World
Trade Center and a part of the Pentagon most certainly
was — could have occurred in this day and age only a
short distance from this house of our common
humanity.
Like most leaders of the civilized world, the
President of Guyana was swift to condemn this
egregious crime. As a small and vulnerable State, with
limited ability to defend itself in the event of
encroachment on its territorial integrity, Guyana cannot
accept the threat or the use of violence to resolve
conflicts and disputes, whether inter-State or intra-
State. All differences must be settled, as called for in
the Charter of the United Nations, by peaceful means,
such as those prescribed in Article 33.
The violence which was visited two months ago
upon some 5,000 human beings — including many of
15

our own nationals — in this our host city and, indeed,
before that, upon so many other peoples and places in
the world, must be not only roundly condemned but
also condignly punished. The international community
must now develop an arsenal of appropriate legal
instruments, including a comprehensive convention
against terrorism, to combat this new enemy of our
times. The message must be clearly sent to all who
would use terrorism to pursue their objectives that their
actions will not be tolerated by the Members of this
Organization but, instead, will be dealt with firmly
with the full force of the law.
At home and in our various regions, we must
build defences that are strong enough to keep out
terrorism and its concomitants, such as arms and drug
trafficking and other forms of transnational crime.
Within the Caribbean Community, of which Guyana is
a member, we have agreed to set up mechanisms for
information sharing and coordinated action to deny
these criminal elements access to our territories. A
regional task force has been established to identify
measures necessary to creating a cordon sanitaire to
help insulate us from their onslaught. This is not an
easy mandate since, as the immigration doors in the
developed countries become more tightly closed,
hundreds of criminals who have grown up in these
societies are being deported now to our countries
which, because of severe financial and human
constraints, are ill-equipped to handle this influx.
Although perhaps not as immediate or striking as
these political and security consequences, the economic
and social impact of the 11 September disaster has
been no less powerful and pervasive. All countries
have undoubtedly been affected by the disaster, but
small and vulnerable States such as my own will find it
especially difficult to cope with the resulting hardship.
Our countries, with far fewer alternatives available to
them than to the more developed, because of an
unfavourable international economic system, high
levels of external debt and unequal terms of trade, will
suffer disproportionately. The exporters of primary
products, now as in the past, are the first to suffer a
downturn in the world economy and the last to
recover — a process that occurs with a frequency that
is altogether too depressing.
These imbalances and asymmetries which
seriously affect the progress of developing countries
are now likely to become even more pronounced in the
rapid process of globalization. Still, as is often said,
“It’s an ill wind that does not blow some good”. We
would therefore wish to believe that out of the calamity
will come an improvement in our lot. We should not be
so foolish, however, as to think that this will happen
automatically. Salvation will depend on our willingness
to learn from our experience and to do better in the
future. From the ashes of the Second World War arose
the phoenix of the United Nations, giving hope to new
generations that they could live in peace, prosperity
and larger freedom. Sadly, the end of the cold war did
not generate a similarly bold enterprise, leaving
humanity to wander aimlessly in search of peaceful
coexistence. We must therefore, before it is too late,
honour our commitment to the United Nations Charter
and create a new vision and strategy with which we
may face the challenges of this new era.
In keeping with the spirit and substance of our
historic compromise, we must act responsibly to
remove from our midst all threats to global peace and
security. Foremost among these is the situation in the
Middle East, at the core of which is the Palestinian
problem, stemming from the persistent denial to an
entire people of the enjoyment of their basic and
inalienable rights. The peace process must be
immediately re-engaged with seriousness of purpose
and determination to put an end, once and for all, to the
senseless violence and bloodshed which has been the
unhappy fate of the Palestinian people and others.
They, as well as all other peoples in the region, must be
allowed to live in a State of their own, free from fear or
want, within safe and secure borders. However, it is not
only the Middle East which suffers from the ravages of
conflict. In far too many places — in Africa, Asia,
Latin America and the Caribbean and Europe, the risk
of violence is ever present, fuelled by a variety of
factors and made more dangerous by the possibility of
further conflagration. To avert these threats, we must
fully utilize the machinery provided in the Charter for
the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Yet, it is important in all of this that the Agenda
for Peace not be allowed to diminish or to displace the
Agenda for Development since, were this to happen,
the prospects for any durable peace anywhere would be
virtually non-existent. Peace and development are
inextricably intertwined, and any attempt to separate
them would not only be artificial but totally dangerous.
We would do well to bear this in mind should recent
events prompt a reordering of global priorities and lead
to a diversion of attention from economic and social
16

issues to purely political and security concerns.
Already, in the immediate aftermath of the attack, the
President of the World Bank was reported to have said
that the 2015 target for halving global poverty could
not now be reached and that, in fact, poverty would
increase over the next year or two. This deterioration is
not easily contemplated by small economies like our
own and those of the Caribbean region.
In our view, it is imperative that the United
Nations now actively pursue the Agenda for
Development to enable developing countries,
especially the small and the vulnerable, to ride out the
current political and economic storms. The upcoming
International Conference on Financing for
Development, which will take place in Monterrey,
Mexico, next March, represents a unique opportunity to
examine both the internal and external constraints that
significantly affect the mobilization of financial
resources for development, as well as to collectively
address the inefficiencies and inequities of existing
financial markets. The high concentration of these
markets on existing financial assets aimed at short-term
profit, rather than on new assets linked to the creation
of wealth and employment for longer-term
development, remains a source of great concern and
must be remedied.
I think that we all must now acknowledge that the
prevailing international system of development
cooperation is seriously flawed and has failed to
achieve its primary objective of increasing growth and
improving the quality of life in poor countries. Inherent
in this system are many debt and poverty traps that
continue to ensnare millions of the world’s poorest
people, many of whom now have to face diseases such
as AIDS. Not only is the experience painful, but it
often also deprives the poor of their basic human
rights, there being an undoubted nexus, now
universally recognized, between the actualization of
human rights and economic development. It is out of
this recognition that my delegation, last November,
brought resolution 55/48 before the General Assembly
on the role of the United Nations in promoting a new
global human order.
The proposal for such an order acknowledges that
the major constraints affecting economic and social
progress in developing countries reside in the capacity
limitation in the critical areas of markets,
administrative and institutional infrastructures in both
the public and private sectors, the leveraging of
resources and the ability of developing countries to
negotiate as equal partners in a number of forums
outside the United Nations. This proposal therefore
seeks to improve the effectiveness of development
cooperation programmes, to optimize scarce financial
resources and to reduce the spread of poverty. It also
addresses new ways of managing development
cooperation that would significantly overcome
problems of aid dependence, current imbalances and
asymmetries in international trade, and the high
indebtedness that continues to plague developing
countries.
These objectives, in the view of the Government
of Guyana, can be achieved through a comprehensive
dialogue among Governments, based not only on
political and economic considerations, but also on
ethical and moral principles that are necessary to the
creation of a more humane and just order in the world.
This dialogue, which began at the last session of the
General Assembly, will be renewed at the fifty-seventh
session, when, we hope, the concept will be further
embedded in the international consciousness and
ultimately accepted as the way forward to a more
enlightened system of international relations.
It is entirely appropriate that this dialogue should
be held within the United Nations, since the
multifaceted and transnational nature of today’s
challenges requires a multilateral, rather than a
unilateral, approach. There is no doubt that the United
Nations is ideally suited to promote this global
partnership in an environment that today requires firm,
focused and inclusive governance. Given the
universality of the Organization’s membership, the
principles and values that it has long upheld and the
growing interest of civil society in its activities, the
United Nations has a singular opportunity now to
exercise a leadership role in international political,
social and economic policy-making.
At this time of great uncertainty and trepidation,
therefore, we must recognize, now more than ever
before, the continuing need for the United Nations
Organization which, despite its many achievements in
its 56 years of existence, has yet to fulfil its full
potential with regard to international cooperation. We
must therefore not allow complacency, self-interest or
unilateralism to compromise that global vision of the
founding Members.









"
56,2001,GNB,"﻿Allow me, on behalf of the Government of Guinea-
Bissau and its delegation, to express sincere
condolences to the people and Government of the
United States and to the people and Government of the
Dominican Republic for the tragic event of 12
November in New York , resulting in great loss of life.
Allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on
your election to the presidency of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly, which will certainly
be crowned with success thanks to your experienced
diplomatic skills and deep understanding of this
universal Organization.
The delegation of Guinea-Bissau, which I have
the honour of heading, would like to assure you at this
time of its full cooperation in carrying out your noble
mandate. I also extend my warm congratulations to
your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, on the
constructive way in which he led the work of the last
session.
In addition, I would like to reaffirm my
Government’s confidence in and regard for the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his clear
leadership of the United Nations and his incessant
search for peaceful and realistic solutions to the
various conflicts and problems that affect humanity.
The Nobel Peace Prize, awarded in October to
our Secretary-General and to the United Nations, which
he so ably leads, proves not only his commitment to the
attainment of peace and security, but also his important
role of working in the interests of humanity. For this
reason, I extend to him my most sincere
congratulations and wishes for success in the second
term of office to which he was elected, and encourage
him to continue his efforts to reform and adapt the
Organization to the needs of our time, in the service of
peace, progress and international cooperation.
In this vein, I urge the widening and deepening of
the reforms already undertaken and appeal once again
for a reform of the Security Council to increase the
number of both permanent and non-permanent
members and to bring the right of veto into line with
the needs of today.
This first General Assembly session of the
twenty-first century represents, as was stated in the
Millennium Declaration, a historic challenge for the
building of new international relations. At the
Millennium Summit, our dignitaries worked hard to
envision the role that the Organization must play in the
twenty-first century. They solemnly reaffirmed their
commitment to the noble ideals of the United Nations,
as well as their conviction that the role of the United
Nations is indispensable in the service of peace,
progress and international cooperation, and in support
of the primacy of law. During that event, our heads of
State and Government also discussed new perspectives
from which to confront the great challenges of
globalization for the promotion of a new international
human order.
In this context, the year 2001 was marked by
important international conferences: the recent World
Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, which took place
in Durban, and whose final Declaration not only
defines slavery as a “crime against humanity” but also
launches an appeal for appropriate and efficient
measures to reverse the consequences of slavery. It also
recognizes that those “historical injustices” contribute
to poverty, underdevelopment, marginalization, social
exclusion, economic disparities and the insecurity of
many peoples, especially in developing countries.
9

Despite those prospects for a new historical
perspective, this session takes place at a moment of
deep disquiet for our countries and peoples. In fact, the
wave of attacks perpetrated on 11 September this year
against the Pentagon in Washington and the World
Trade Center in New York, just a few kilometres from
the Assembly, is reason for great concern for my
Government and the President of the Republic,
Mr. Kumba Yalá, who promptly and strongly
condemned the cowardly terrorist acts perpetrated
against the United States of America. Today I reaffirm
before the Assembly our unreserved condemnation of
terrorism in all its forms, wherever or whenever it
occurs and whatever its origins, since it constitutes a
threat to security, peaceful relations between States,
democratic institutions and the fulfilment of human
rights.
Today more than ever before, it is necessary to
adopt a broad strategy for the entire international
community to combat terrorism. In that context,
Guinea-Bissau appeals for greater international
cooperation on the issue of terrorism, specifically,
through the ratification of already existing regional and
international instruments and the approval, within the
context of the United Nations, of a comprehensive
convention that covers all aspects of terrorism, from a
universally accepted definition to its suppression.
It is in precisely this regard that my country,
Guinea-Bissau, became a party to the Organization of
African Unity Convention on the Prevention and
Combating of Terrorism, adopted in 1999 at Algiers,
and to the Dakar Declaration on this same scourge,
issued last October. We are determined to accelerate
the ratification and implementation processes of all the
agreements that seek to fight terrorism.
The beginning of the twenty-first century, which
coincides with the threshold of the new millennium, is
marked by areas of tension and armed conflict that
threaten peace and security and fuel the proliferation of
and illicit traffic in small arms. In this context, the
subregional and regional organizations, with the
support of the international community, through the
United Nations, are fully engaged in the search for
political solutions to conflicts. From Sierra Leone to
Angola, from the Democratic Republic of the Congo to
Burundi, from Somalia to Kosovo, from East Timor to
the Middle East, the ghosts of conflict still hover as we
seek to find solutions to existing conflicts.
At present in Sierra Leone, a country of our
subregion, the Lomé Agreement, concluded under the
auspices of the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS), and the subsequent success of the
United Nations-supported programme for disarming the
parties involved in the conflict, allow us to hope for a
legitimate peace.
In Angola, a member of the Community of
Portuguese-speaking Countries, cruel and destabilizing
acts continue to take place, causing enormous pain to
our Angolan brothers, who have endured the nightmare
of four decades of war. I would like to express our
solidarity with the Angolan people and Government,
and appeal for dialogue as part of the solution to that
conflict.
In East Timor, with the elections for the
Constituent Assembly already held, an important step
was taken in the transition to the independence that
will be proclaimed in May next year, and towards its
acceptance as a fully fledged member of global society.
We hope that the international community will
continue to offer its valuable assistance to our Maubere
brothers, who can finally aspire to rebuild their country
in peace.
In the Middle East, the conflict between Israel
and Palestine is at the crux of the situation. It is in that
context that we appeal to the parties, in accordance
with the Mitchell plan, to implement the accords
without delay and reaffirm the fundamental principles
established at Madrid and Oslo, as well as the
subsequent agreements. This requires the parties to
abstain from all actions that endanger the peace process
and all activity that is contrary to international law.
Finally, the embargoes imposed upon certain
countries, such as Cuba, continue to be a source of
concern because of their very negative repercussions
on the vulnerable populations of those countries, above
all women and children. The populations involved
appeal for dialogue with a view to a definitive solution
to those issues.
The sombre scene characterized by areas of
conflict and tension in the world, particularly in Africa,
places on us a moral obligation to continue to act with
even greater determination and courage to end those
conflicts and the sources of those tensions. Along these
lines, allow me to congratulate the Secretary-General,
Kofi Annan, on his last report on the causes of conflict
and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable
10

development in Africa, a document of great interest for
the African continent.
The global economic situation — particularly
after the events of 11 September — and its negative
impact, felt especially in the least developed countries,
is also an issue of concern for my Government. The
solutions to the specific problems on the international
agenda require not only concerted action, but also both
bilateral and multilateral contacts, which Guinea-
Bissau has always supported. My Government believes
in concerted and combined efforts with a view to
fostering economic growth and full employment in a
fairer global economy. Bearing in mind that a majority
of African countries have agriculture as their economic
base, we appeal to our development partners, such as
the European Union, the United States and Japan,
among others, to open their markets to the flow of
agricultural products from our countries.
By virtue of its important mission to generate an
authentic North-South dialogue, the United Nations is
our universal conscience, whose highest priority is to
meet the needs of developing countries. The
programmes of action originating from the series of
major conferences of the last decade and from other
important meetings which took place this year are of
special importance in that they contribute to identifying
needs, formulating objectives and defining strategies
for the realization of sustainable development rooted in
sustainable economic growth, social justice and the
protection of the environment. We are now waiting for
those results to be translated into concrete benefits,
thus opening the way for a better global economic
situation.
As all Members know, Guinea-Bissau continues
to live with the effects of the absurd and disastrous
armed conflict of 1998 and 1999, which, apart from the
irreparable loss of human lives, caused deep trauma to
our entire society and destroyed or damaged the
country’s existing basic infrastructure. In addition, the
marked decline in foreign aid and the slump in export
prices of cashew nuts, our main export commodity,
constitute the basic reason for our lack of resources and
for the increase in poverty. This runs counter to the
interests of our citizens and makes them more
vulnerable.
However, an unshakeable will to rebuild the
country has led my Government, together with some
development partners, to redouble its efforts to define a
strategy for sustainable development and to take
measures in the realm of human rights and
reconciliation. The programme for the reconstruction
and rehabilitation of infrastructure and for national
reconciliation, the multi-year convergence programmes
for stability, growth and solidarity elaborated in the
framework of the West African Economic and
Monetary Union, the programmes of demobilization,
reintegration and social reinsertion of combatants, the
fight against poverty, the fight against AIDS and other
programmes are clear examples of the will and
commitment of the Government to create a new reality
for society and a new action programme intended to
effect change in that society. The President of the
Republic, Mr. Kumba Yalá, is the main mentor and
guarantor of those programmes by virtue of the sacred
responsibility given to him, the highest ranking
official, by the voters of Guinea-Bissau.
The programme of action requires not only
internal but also external efforts. That is why the
Government is strengthening its cooperation with other
countries at the subregional, regional and international
levels. Despite all its efforts, Guinea-Bissau continues
to need the valuable assistance of its development
partners and of the international community to face the
difficult economic and social challenges that lie ahead.
In that regard, we appeal to the international
community to bolster its support for Guinea-Bissau and
to make donors aware of the importance of
participating actively in next year’s round table on
assistance to my country.
The celebration this year of the United Nations
Year of Dialogue among Civilizations and of the
International Year of Mobilization against Racism,
Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related
Intolerance, which coincides with the fifty-third
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, is a cause for satisfaction for my Government.
This is reflected in the creation of a inter-ministerial
committee on human rights tasked with overseeing
respect for human rights in our country and promoting
education and awareness programmes on human rights
issues.
Since his landslide election to the presidency of
the nation, the President of the Republic, Mr. Kumba
Yalá, has increased his contacts at various levels, with
friendship visits to Guinea, the Gambia, Senegal,
Nigeria, Morocco, Sierra Leone and other countries
with the aim of strengthening cooperation and
11

contributing to peaceful solutions within the
subregional framework.
It is in that same spirit that the authorities of my
country have maintained vigilance in the area of the
border with Senegal, with the objective of guaranteeing
the security and tranquillity of our populations in that
northern zone.
In this first year of the new millennium and of the
twenty-first century, despite certain echoes of
optimism, poverty and underdevelopment unfortunately
persist and have been aggravated in many areas of the
world, particularly in the least developed countries,
among which is Guinea-Bissau. The developing
countries, in particular the least developed among
them, continue to be marginalized in the world
economy and to be victims of extreme poverty, due
mainly to decreased official development assistance, to
the lack of productive human resources, to the
weakness of domestic and foreign investments, to the
slump in commodity prices, to the problems of debt, to
HIV/AIDS and also, obviously, to armed conflicts.
To overcome this situation it is imperative to
ensure the integration of developing countries into the
world economy and to oppose the marginalization of
those countries, ensuring sustainable, accelerated and
durable economic development as well as the
elimination of poverty, inequality and misery. In that
context, we are pleased at the results of the Third
United Nations Conference on the Least Developed
Countries, which took place in May this year at
Brussels. We are certain that the results of the
International Conference on Financing for
Development, to take place at Monterrey, Mexico, in
March 2002, will be translated into concrete action that
can reverse those negative trends.
Cooperation frameworks include the Lomé
Convention of the European Union and the African,
Caribbean and Pacific countries; the Tokyo
International Conference on African Development; the
United States African Growth and Opportunity Act;
and the Genoa decision of the Group of 8 on the
creation of a fund for the fight against contagious
diseases and AIDS on the African continent. We look
forward to the latter group’s next summit on African
problems.
Because of the particularly difficult economic
situation it faces, Africa continues to look for realistic
solutions for the continent and is giving clear proof of
its determination to improve the economies of the
countries of the continent. Beyond the programmes of
structural adjustment and other development
programmes that have been adopted for the continent,
the New African Initiative, resulting from the merger
of the plans presented by the heads of State of Senegal
and of South Africa, has come at an opportune time. It
is an African plan for Africans that provides developed
countries a historic opportunity to forge a genuine
partnership based on mutually beneficial self-interest.
The Initiative, adopted unanimously at the most recent
summit of the Organization of African Unity, held at
Lusaka, should be implemented with the utmost speed.
We appeal to the entire international community, and to
our development partners in particular, to support the
Initiative, which encompasses the relaunching of our
economies, debt reduction and the fight against AIDS.
It is regrettable that the response of our
development partners has not always been
commensurate with the degree of sacrifice that has
been endured or with the dimensions of the problems
that have been identified. That is a paradox. It is also a
paradox that the decisions of major international
conferences should not be reflected in practical,
concrete measures to implement those decisions.
The new collective challenge is to bring to light
the image of a world of equality, dignity, equity and
international solidarity, all translated into economic
and social cooperation and genuine social adjustment
with the human being as its central point of reference.



"
56,2001,IRL,"﻿I congratulate the President
on his election as President of the fifty-sixth session of
the General Assembly and thank him for his successful
efforts to take forward the work of this Assembly. My
colleague, Foreign Minister Louis Michel of Belgium,
has already addressed this General Assembly on behalf
of the European Union. Ireland associates itself fully
with his remarks.
We meet at a moment of uncertainty. The spectre
of war once again casts its shadow across the
continents. Forty years ago, when addressing the
Assembly, President John F. Kennedy warned:
Mankind must put an end to war or war will put an
end to mankind. Of course, President Kennedy was
addressing a different world from the one we now live
in. The war he feared was a war between two great
power blocs that would end in assured mutual
annihilation.
Thankfully, the threat of conflict on such a scale
is now a far more remote prospect, but war and conflict
continue to cause enormous suffering in many parts of
the world. This, together with the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction  nuclear, chemical and
biological  means that war and its mutation,
terrorism, continue to threaten mankind  our lives,
our liberty and our prosperity.
This is simply not acceptable. We, the peoples of
the United Nations, created, joined and sustained this
Organization in the determination to save this and
succeeding generations from the scourge of war. We
must now demonstrate renewed and sustained
commitment to the realization of this goal.
Many speakers in this debate have spoken about
the events of 11 September as a defining moment in
history. During the twentieth century, we faced a
number of such defining moments  the First World
War, the Second World War and the fall of the Berlin
Wall, which heralded the end of the cold war. These
defining moments are perhaps best reflected in the
popular phrase found on the lips of men and women of
all races and creeds at such times: Things will never
be the same again. Out of such defining moments
there comes the resolve to learn the lessons of history,
to change the existing order and to make sure the
calamities of the past can never happen again.
26

In the heat and clarity of the immediate aftermath
of such events, expressions of resolve are abundant.
And yet, from the examples I have just outlined, it is
clear that in the past our resolve has faltered as the
immediate threat receded and that the determination
required to tackle the underlying causes and injustices
that give rise to conflict has proved difficult to sustain.
Today the international community is again at a
crossroads. If we want a true and lasting victory over
international terrorism; if we want safety, security and
prosperity for our own people and our children, then
we must act with sustained resolve and sustained
determination.
Our immediate agenda is clear. Action against
terrorism must be pursued resolutely across a wide
front and over a sustained period. In undertaking this
necessary endeavour, let us be honest and realistic.
With retributive justice must come distributive justice.
The peace and security which we crave for ourselves
and for future generations will not be secured unless
we simultaneously tackle the root causes of conflict:
injustice, poverty and the abuse of fundamental rights
and freedoms.
Too often, multilateral action has been
characterized as reaction to the outcomes of conflict.
Last year's Millennium Declaration confirmed the
public commitment of the world's leadership to
resolving also the root causes of conflict. The United
Nations was created out of the determination to tackle
conflict and its causes. On that basis, let us this week
recommit and rededicate ourselves to the achievement
of the goals and objectives of the United Nations. As
the Secretary-General pointed out when opening this
general debate, none of the issues that faced us on 10
September has become less urgent.
We must act more resolutely through the United
Nations, with sustained commitment and sustained
determination, to address this equally urgent agenda.
We must implement with determination all Security
Council resolutions. Let us realize and build on the
pledges we made at the Millennium Summit. Let us
strive much more effectively to control the spread of
weapons of mass destruction. Let us also improve the
working of this Organization by making it more
efficient, adaptable and coordinated. In the words of
the Secretary-General this week, let us ensure that
when the United Nations acts, only the best is good
enough. Only in this way will the United Nations and
its Member States succeed in overcoming the massive
challenges which now confront us.
In addressing this comprehensive agenda, we
must not relax our efforts on human rights. This
Organization was founded out of a determination to
assert human rights, the dignity and worth of the
human person and the equal rights of men and women.
We must not equivocate on any of these principles. In
pursuit of this, Ireland looks forward to the imminent
establishment of the International Criminal Court and
appeals for its universal recognition.
Violent conflict and internal strife are the reality
of daily life in many regions and countries across the
world today  the Middle East, the Great Lakes region
of Africa and many other places, such as Sudan, where
people are being killed and maimed. Ireland has
worked hard since joining the Security Council last
January to focus on the need to address these and other
conflicts. We have given particular attention to Africa
and to the efforts, frequently African-led, to solve the
many conflicts there. We have consistently sought to
highlight the humanitarian aspects of the various
situations coming before the Council. We were
particularly gratified during our presidency of the
Security Council last month to have presided over
substantial discussions on Somalia and on the United
Nations support for post-independence East Timor.
We remain concerned about the humanitarian
situation of the people of Iraq. The Iraqi Government
can and must do more within the system set out in the
Security Council resolutions to meet the humanitarian
needs of its own people. For its part, the Security
Council and its members must redouble their efforts to
reach agreement on the outcome of its review of the
sanctions regime. But we must not lose sight of the
fundamental purpose of the sanctions regime: Iraq must
allow verification that it has met its essential
disarmament obligations.
The Irish Government is grateful to those
Member States that supported Ireland's membership in
the Security Council. We will continue to strive to
vindicate the confidence that you placed in us.
The United Nations role in peacekeeping has
been at the heart of our collective endeavours now for
over 50 years. Ireland has played a proud part in
United Nations peacekeeping across the continents.
This evening, I want to take a moment to thank the
Irish soldiers who have served with such distinction
27

and dedication in Lebanon for the last 23 years. The
last Irish battalion leaves the United Nations Interim
Force in Lebanon tomorrow. The people of Ireland are
proud of their service and achievements in the cause of
peace. I want to pay special tribute to the memory of
those soldiers who lost their lives in the service of
peace.
Ireland's commitment to United Nations
peacekeeping remains undiminished. We continue to
participate in about a dozen missions. A new
contingent of our troops will soon begin service with
the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea.
We must equally give priority to achieving
sustainable development and meeting the humanitarian
challenges that confront us. The United Nations
Population Fund's 2001 The State of World Population
report, published last week, reminds us that half of the
world's 6.1 billion people still exist on less than $2 per
day and forecasts that the world population will rise by
50 per cent, to 9.3 billion, by the year 2050. Is it
acceptable that over 3 billion people are today living in
total and abject poverty, while the developed world is
struggling to come to terms with the problems of over-
consumption and environmental pollution? Are we
prepared to accept that there could be over 6 billion
people living in poverty by 2050?
Let us see every Government set out its
commitment to reach the target of 0.7 per cent of gross
national product for development assistance within the
next five years. Ireland has already made it clear that it
will deliver on its commitment in this regard and will
increase its overseas development aid budget by over
$100 million next year to keep on track towards this
target. Let us reassess the sustainable debt levels and
provide additional relief to the heavily indebted poor
countries of sub-Saharan Africa, which will suffer the
most in the present economic downturn.
Let us redouble our efforts to overcome an
HIV/AIDS pandemic which is killing over 6.5
thousand people every day in Africa and which has
already orphaned over 9 million children on that
continent. The Declaration of Commitment agreed at
the General Assembly special session in June has
established the framework and the targets. It now has
to be financed and implemented.
Let us work harder together to prevent climate
change from devastating poor and vulnerable countries.
We have achieved much already. This is
recognized by the awarding of this year's Nobel Peace
Prize jointly to our Organization and to our esteemed
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. I offer my warmest
congratulations and appreciation to Kofi Annan, and to
all who serve the United Nations. But the Secretary-
General would be the first to emphasize that the award
of the Nobel Peace Prize must be seen not only as a
recognition of past achievement, but as an inspiration
to renewed commitment and determination.
The terrible events of 11 September, which struck
most fiercely at the city of New York  seat of the
United Nations and melting pot of all races and
creeds  brought home to us all that the collective
security of the international community is only as
strong as its weakest link. As long as a single
Government or, in the case of the Taliban, a single de
facto administration, is prepared to allow its territory to
be used as a base for terrorist attacks against people
anywhere on this planet, we can never feel secure.
We must confront and defeat the scourge of
international terrorism and bring those responsible for
the barbaric acts of 11 September to justice, not out of
a need for revenge, but because the perpetrators of
these acts are capable of repeating such attacks and
make no secret of their determination to do so. They
can and must be stopped.
Ireland's position has been steadfast and clear: we
stand with the United States and with the rest of the
international community in asserting that the barbarism
of 11 September cannot be allowed to succeed; that the
threat posed by international terrorism must be
permanently ended; and that there must be a total
commitment by all Governments to this task, with all
the energy and resources at our disposal.
My Government hopes that the military campaign
now under way will achieve its objectives in as short a
time frame as possible. Every effort must continue to
be made to avoid civilian casualties, and it is crucial
that the military campaign be accompanied by a visible
and effective humanitarian strategy. The long-suffering
people of Afghanistan deserve no less. There must also
be a concerted international effort, coordinated by the
United Nations, to assist the people of Afghanistan in
establishing a broad-based Government, representative
of all the ethnic groups which make up the country.
This must be accompanied by a comprehensive and
generous programme of support for the post-military
28

rehabilitation and reconstruction of Afghanistan. The
international community must stay engaged once a
representative Government is established there.
In Ireland, we continue to make steady progress
with our own peace process. As representatives will be
aware, the British and Irish Governments and the
political parties in Northern Ireland successfully
negotiated a comprehensive peace settlement over three
years ago, known as the Good Friday Agreement. Since
then, we have worked hard to secure the full
implementation of this Agreement.
Two of the most difficult and sensitive issues we
have had to face were the putting of paramilitary
weapons beyond use and the putting in place of a new
beginning to policing. I am very pleased to be able to
inform the Assembly that very considerable progress
has recently been made on both these crucial issues. As
a result, the way is now clear for a sustained,
committed and enthusiastic implementation of all
elements of the Good Friday Agreement.
We have learned a lot from our own voyage
towards peace. We have put in place new constitutional
and institutional arrangements, which fully recognize
and respect the legitimacy of both political traditions
on the island of Ireland. We have established the
primacy and full relevance of politics in people's lives
in Northern Ireland. We do not pretend, of course, that
we have found a solution that has universal
application  we know too well how local and
individual conflicts can be. But through our own
process of trial and error we have learned lessons and
established principles that may be useful in resolving
conflicts in other parts of the world. From our own
experience of peace-building, we enumerate the most
important elements of any truly sustainable peace
process as follows.
There can be no purely military solution. A
lasting settlement must always address the root causes
of conflict. Compromise is essential. Recognizing that
extremism breeds in the absence of reason, conflict
resolution demands that we rehabilitate the concept of
compromise. In the context of effective political
dialogue and the peaceful resolution of disputes,
peacemakers should not regard compromise as
representing appeasement or surrender, victory or
defeat. Neither does compromise necessarily require
splitting the difference between the parties. A lasting
agreement must be comprehensive and address all
issues of concern, even if the parties might agree to
deal with them in different time frames.
Those in favour of peace in each community must
work together, even in the face of hostility from the
enemies of the peace process in their own community.
They must stick together in adversity. They must avoid
excessive and damaging criticism when mistakes are
made, as they inevitably will be. They must be
prepared to face down the enemies of peace together.
The international community must support the
peace process in a balanced and objective way. A
successful process needs a route map, such as those
already prepared by Mitchell and Tenet in the context
of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It also needs a
mechanism to arbitrate on who is meeting, and who is
not meeting, their commitments under any such
arrangements.
Those driving the peace process must rise above
the politics of the last atrocity. Not doing so, while
understandable in terms of domestic opinion, is
ultimately bereft of vision and hands control over
progress to the enemies of the process. There is a
particularly compelling message here for those charged
with advancing the peace process in the Middle East. If
these elements are present, we believe a peace process
can prosper.
As I have already said, there is no one size fits
all solution to conflict. I believe, however, that if
these principles were to be applied in certain other
conflict situations, they could make a significant
contribution to the achievement of peace and political
progress.
The world we seek cannot be brought about
overnight. Building peace, ensuring justice, widening
respect for fundamental human rights and eliminating
poverty will take time. We will require stamina,
determination, inspiration, patience, generosity and
compromise. We have all these qualities in abundance
if only we can find the political will to use them and
the determination, together, to seek new ways forward.



"
56,2001,MDG,"﻿It is with strong feelings that we return
today to New York to find it still darkened by
mourning yet ever brightened by the aura of freedom.
New York is the capital of international diplomacy, a
crossroads of cultures and civilizations, a cosmopolitan
city in which nations co-exist. New York is a city
whose heart will forever hold the memory of the
victims of the human folly of 11 September 2001.
To the people and Government of the United
States, under the enlightened leadership of President
George Bush, we reiterate our deepest condolences. We
also thank them warmly for their welcome and for the
facilities placed at our disposal.
On behalf of the delegation of Madagascar, from
this United Nations rostrum I convey to Mr. Han
Seung-soo our sincerest congratulations on his election
to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. To
his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, we pay well-
deserved tribute for the success of the Millennium
Assembly.
To Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of our
Organization, we express our pride at the important
distinction he has recently been awarded. The Nobel
Peace Prize that he has received is both a recognition
of his unassailable competence and dedication as well
as a reflection of the value of the United Nations and
the trust placed in it by the entire world.
Our Organization is being confronted with new
concerns every day. It is called on to keep up with the
pace of international change in order to better fulfil its
mission as a regulator of inter-State relations, a
facilitator of negotiations and a catalyst of
development. The United Nations remains the supreme
decision-making body and the main guarantor of world
peace and security.
Madagascar supports profound reform and a
streamlining of the Organization’s institutional
structure in order to improve its performance.
Madagascar remains convinced and confident,
however, that our Organization is still a privileged
platform for the exchange and harmonization of views.
Creating together a climate of world peace and
harmony; struggling in unity against poverty, the AIDS
pandemic, transnational crime and environmental
degradation; building in concert a better future for the
coming generation, our children, who are tomorrow’s
decision-makers — these were the expectations voiced
at the Millennium Summit in this very Hall. It was an
ambitious millennium, given the prospects and
programmes of action projected up to the year 2015,
and one of multiple challenges, given that objectives
remain to be achieved and that we have a long road
ahead of us. Above all, it was a millennium for taking
stock and moving forward, since the situation of human
and economic development calls on us to rise to its
expectations and to overcome its hurdles.
A world of well-being is what our children need
today and tomorrow above all. The devotion of my
country and my people to all questions relating to
children is seen in our genuine commitment to
international conventions. On 16 July 2001,
Madagascar ratified International Labour Organization
Convention No. 182 on the Prohibition and Immediate
Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child
Labour. The Hague Convention on the Intercountry
Adoption of Children is currently being considered by
our Parliament. The implementation of the law of 1999
on paedophilia complements the Optional Protocol that
we signed in September 2000 regarding the sale of
children, child prostitution and child pornography.
We welcome enthusiastically the decision to hold
in May 2002 the Summit on the future of children. In
view of our intention to participate in that event, a
national parliament of children has just been
established this year.
The family must remain the basic core of society,
the foundation of the nation, a source of human dignity
30

and the guarantor of stable social development.
Consequently, the family must be protected, as must be
the values associated with it.
Madagascar, an island in the Indian Ocean, thus
far little affected by the AIDS pandemic, is nonetheless
not indifferent to this scourge. A strategy and a
programme to prevent and combat AIDS, within an
established institutional framework, are being pursued
by all State and non-State institutions in the country.
Having participated actively in the United Nations
special session on AIDS in June 2001, Madagascar
fully supports the resolutions adopted at that meeting.
Since Africa has a wealth of medicinal plants, any
research in this connection will benefit from consistent
support.
Africa pledges resolutely, and with the full
awareness of its responsibilities, to take its own destiny
in hand. Positive development indicators are imminent,
and are appreciated. Continental integration is
underway within an effective African Union. Regional
mechanisms for African conflict management and
prevention are already operational. The New African
Initiative, including long-term development
programmes for our continent, has benefited from the
support of the international community.
Nonetheless, in the context of globalization, the
economic and commercial rules of the game are not
always in the developing countries’ favour. We deplore
the widening gap between the economies of the
countries of the South and those of the countries of the
North. The World Trade Organization, which is
meeting right now in Qatar, should further encourage
the advanced countries to give greater trade
preferences to the developing countries. Given the
negative impact of a possible complete liberalization of
trade, the economy of the least developed countries
must be taken into consideration by the international
community, because any new multilateral contract
engenders binding obligations.
Integration within regional markets will clearly
make it possible for our countries to adapt steadily to
the demands and constraints of the world market, while
promoting intra-regional and South-South exchanges.
We expect of regional cooperation a concrete transfer
of technology and know-how and a harmonization of
standards.
Madagascar’s economy has followed the
dynamics of growth thanks to steadfast national efforts
and an enterprising partnership. Madagascar joined the
free trade zone of the Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa (COMESA), on 31 October 2001. We
have benefited from the Initiative of the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and from the
rescheduling or cancellation of our debts by a number
of our creditors. We are signatories of the Cotonou
Agreement of July 2001, and are beneficiaries of the
African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). All of
this bears witness to the confidence that the
international community has in our country.
However, out of solidarity with all low-income
countries, we believe that there is an urgent need to
review international policy regarding official
development assistance. We welcome the holding in
Brussels last May of the United Nations Conference on
the Least Developed Countries. The time has come for
concrete action, so that the objective of reducing
poverty by half by the 2015 can become a reality.
Madagascar has always been attentive to and
concerned by situations of international conflict, and
more particularly those that affect the African
continent and the Indian Ocean area. In the framework
of the Organization of African Unity and of the
International Organization of la Francophonie, we have
supported the Camoros in their process of national
reconciliation and their return to constitutional
normalcy. We welcome the draft constitution prepared
by the Tripartite Commission, which included different
trends and factions of the three reunited islands, and
the decision to hold the referendum next December.
It goes without saying that the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict claims our full attention. We believe it is
imperative that a special session be convened on this
question by the United Nations and also that an
international force be deployed to protect the innocent
victims. We support the Palestinian people in its
struggle for independence and sovereignty. We also
welcome the continuation of peace negotiations
between the Government of Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization. The principle of land for
peace must be respected. This must be done in keeping
with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly
and the Security Council.
Afghanistan, a den of extreme poverty and hotbed
of tension, has recently become a site of war. While the
fight against terrorism is legitimate and is the
responsibility of all States Member of our
31

Organization, support for refugees and the civilian
victims of war is a duty that shouts out at all of us.
Humanitarian intervention is therefore imperative.
Madagascar reiterates its commitment to
disarmament efforts, an essential element of the United
Nations strategy for peace and security, according to
the Secretary-General’s most recent report (A/56/1).
My delegation welcomes the holding in July 2001 of
the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. Of
course, we support the first global Programme of
Action that was adopted. My country reaffirms the
urgent need to implement the conventions of the United
Nations that condemn the production, proliferation and
illicit sale of weapons. Madagascar is a party to several
multilateral treaties regarding disarmament. The Treaty
of Pelindaba, which makes Africa a nuclear-weapons-
free zone, has just been ratified by our Parliament.
Our reunion here in this Hall, in this large United
Nations family, reminds us that we are survivors, and
that it is only a matter of time before the terrorist
sword of Damocles dangerously suspended over our
heads, may again perpetrate its odious carnage. The
fact that we have been spared compels us to mobilize
and to coordinate a united and merciless struggle
against terrorism.
Madagascar, my country and its people, coming
from a mixture of many cultural, religious and ethnic
backgrounds, reiterates its condemnation of the
terrorist barbarity that struck a sister nation, with
victims of all nationalities having perished in the
attacks of 11 September 2001.
Terrorism is the very negation of everything that
we, as leaders of our different nations and institutions
gathered here, do to make of this world a universe of
law, humanity and lasting peace.
Madagascar has already begun the process of
ratifying the 12 conventions against terrorism, and last
October signed the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. Likewise,
we will immediately proceed to sign the Protocol
against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in
Firearms. We support the draft comprehensive
convention against terrorism, submitted by India,
which is based on existing conventions, with the
emphasis placed on concrete measures that member
countries would be able to apply.
International cooperation in police and judicial
investigations must be consolidated, taking into
account exchanges of information on major trafficking
activity. This would require harmonization of
legislation and the establishment of multilateral
operational structures for the prevention and
suppression of transnational crimes.
The threat of bioterrorism has in recent times
created a psychosis of collective fear that has spread
throughout the world. This means that the international
community must design and urgently put in place
effective protective measures against this danger. The
Convention on Biological and Toxin Weapons is now
before the Parliament of Madagascar for ratification. It
is now imperative that we think deeply and on an
ongoing basis about the subject of terrorism.
Combating terrorism also means identifying and
understanding the causes of this scourge and
eradicating the evil at its very roots. In order to halt its
ramifications we must remove all sources of support,
which involves destroying the many laboratories and
bases for logistical backup and cutting off financing,
weapons acquisition, fund-raising and proselytizing.
On the basis of that conviction, we are pleased
that our Organization has adopted the Programme of
Action for dialogue among civilizations.
In accordance with the United Nations resolution
making 2001 the International Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations, last October Madagascar organized a
workshop in which all those involved in our country’s
development participated. From the discussions
emerged the notion that traditional cultures could serve
as a point of reference for modern nations to design a
code of peaceful behaviour. The prevention of terrorist
acts could also be complemented by educational and
training programmes and information programmes on
the culture of peace.
We have proposed the establishment at the
national level of a non-aggression pact among the
country’s religious institutions in order to head off any
dangers of religious war or other conflicts. This
initiative deserves to be expanded to a wider scale in
order to ensure a climate of confidence and calm. We
must have the courage to denounce the excesses of
fanaticism and religious extremism, which endanger
our common values.
The time has now come for dialogue. It is not too
late to become aware of the value of dialogue. Having
32

a dialogue does not mean tolerating misdeeds, nor does
it mean any complicity with criminals, who must be
punished. Above all, having a dialogue means going
beyond terrorism through a new understanding of the
concept of enemy. It is now time to hear each other,
with mutual respect and in a climate of understanding
that takes the other into account. It is now time for
shared responsibilities and continued harmonization of
views for the establishment of a world of trust.






"
56,2001,PRK,"﻿I congratulate you, Sir,
once again on your election as President of the fifty-
sixth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to
express high appreciation to Mr. Harri Holkeri, who
carried out his duties as President of the fifty-fifth
session of the General Assembly in an excellent
manner. I would like to take this opportunity to extend
warm congratulations again to Mr. Kofi Annan on his
re-election as Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Last year, heads of State and Government
throughout the world held the Millennium Summit in
33

this Hall and committed themselves to building a
peaceful and prosperous world in the new century. That
gave high hope and expectations to all people of the
world. However, the developments that are now taking
place on the globe overshadow possible
implementation of the Millennium Summit
commitments. The principles of respect for national
sovereignty and equality that constitute a cornerstone
of international relations are being undermined by
certain forces that consider strength as the means to
achieve everything. As long as there is acquiescence to
acts of arbitrary power that seek to destroy strategic
stability and hold absolute supremacy by establishing a
missile defence system in defiance of international
opposition, the world will be engulfed in another cold
war and arms race.
The problem of the Korean peninsula always
comes up as one of the major issues in deliberations on
global peace and security. That is because of the power
policy and arbitrary actions directed in most cases
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. We
are exposed to constant threats from huge armed
forces, including nuclear weapons, deployed around the
Korean peninsula on the pretext of an alleged threat
from North Korea, and that is the main source of
instability on the Korean peninsula and in the Asia-
Pacific region. That notwithstanding, we have been
able firmly to defend the dignity and sovereignty of the
country on our own in the face of the offensive by
hostile forces, and under difficult conditions
resembling an arduous march, unprecedented in our
history, thus contributing to the peace and security of
the region. That is entirely attributable to the
outstanding army-first policies of the respected General
Kim Jong Il. The great leader General Kim Jong Il
conducted active diplomacy, including his visit to
China and Russia and his meeting with the top-level
delegation of the European Union this year, and thus
made a great contribution to developing overall
international relations and strengthening global peace
and security.
In particular, the summit meetings and talks
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
and Russia and the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and China resulted in the adoption of documents
reflecting shared views on strengthening the leading
role of the United Nations in resolving major
international issues, ensuring strategic balance, and so
on. This serves as an historic milestone in establishing
a fair, new world, based on the principles of mutual
respect and cooperation for mutual benefit. We will, as
ever, firmly defend our sovereignty and the socialist
system of our country and advance convincingly along
the road chosen by ourselves under the army-first
leadership of the respected General Kim Jong Il.
It is the unanimous desire of all Korean people to
reunify the divided country at the earliest possible date.
Last year, the inter-Korean summit meeting was held
and the North-South Joint Declaration issued for the
first time in the history of the national division, thanks
to the idea of national independence and great national
unity of the great leader, Comrade Kim Jong Il. The
Joint Declaration reflects the will and aspirations of the
Korean people to achieve reunification independently
by pooling the efforts of the nation. It enjoys wide
support and is welcomed by the international
community. The General Assembly, at its fifty-fifth
session, unanimously adopted the resolution supporting
the Joint Declaration. With the publication of the Joint
Declaration, the enthusiasm for reunification was
manifested throughout the Korean peninsula and
dialogues and contacts in various fields took place
between the North and the South of Korea. It
demonstrated that the Korean nation could well open
the door to reunification by itself, if the North and the
South make joint efforts with sincere will for
independent reunification. However, inter-Korean
relations and the implementation of the 15 June Joint
Declaration, which were proceeding well and in the
right direction, now face a big obstacle due to the hard-
line, hostile policy and unjust interference of the new
United States Administration against the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.
The half-century history of national division and,
in particular, experiences during the past year, clearly
show that the North and South of Korea should, above
all, adhere to a stance of national independence if they
are to implement the North-South Joint Declaration.
Only when the North and South collaborate as one
nation will they open up a bright future for the nation,
without becoming a victim of outside forces. The most
important element in implementing the North-South
Joint Declaration and achieving peace and reunification
on the Korean peninsula is to put an end to the hostile
policy and interference of the United States against the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. It is totally
irrational to say that the United States deploys huge
armed forces in and around the Korean peninsula and
34

conducts large-scale military exercises against us to
advance peace, self-defensive measures taken by my
country to cope with the United States military threat is
a threat to peace. Our missile programme is of a purely
peaceful nature and does not pose a threat to any
country that respects the sovereignty of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.
It makes no sense for the United States to argue
that it needs to establish a missile defence system out
of fear of our missiles while itself possessing
thousands of nuclear bombs and missiles that could
extinguish humankind many times over. That argument
only covers up the United States strategy to gain
domination of the world, based on superior power.
Since the cold war is over and the North and South of
Korea are proceeding towards reconciliation and
cooperation in accordance with the 15 June Joint
Declaration, there is neither reason nor any other
ground whatsoever for United States troops to remain
in the South of Korea. Withdrawal of United States
troops from South Korea is an urgent issue whose
solution should not brook any further delay in the
interest of ensuring peace and security on the Korean
peninsula and in North-East Asia. Dialogue should be
conducted on a fair and equal basis. Resumption of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea-United States
of America dialogue will only be possible when the
present United States Administration gets rid of its
cold-war mentality and adopts a stance at least at the
level of the one taken by the Clinton Administration in
the last period of its term of office.
During the past two years, we have established
official relations with almost all member States of the
European Union (EU) and diplomatic relations with the
EU itself, and countries of other regions as well, on the
basis of the principles of respect for sovereignty and
equality. We are also ready to develop relations with
the United States on the principles of equality and
mutual benefit if the United States respects our
sovereignty and freedom of choice, takes an attitude of
good will towards us on an equal footing, and refrains
from obstructing the reunification of Korea.
Another factor of instability that casts a dark
shadow on the future development of the Korean
peninsula and its surroundings is the orientation of
Japanese moves, that is, the ultra-rightist inclination of
Japan and its undisguised attempt to revive militarism.
My delegation wishes to draw the attention of all
Member States to this matter at this session of the
General Assembly held in the first year of the twenty-
first century. The Japanese authorities are not willing to
terminate their past crimes against humanity, but try
instead to justify them, openly visiting the Yasukuni
Shrine, where the departed souls of the war criminals
are enshrined, distorting history textbooks for new
generations and legalizing the overseas advance of the
Japanese self-defence force.
On 29 August, Japan test-fired an H-2A large-size
delivery rocket that could easily be converted into an
intercontinental ballistic missile. That is a clear
indication that the militarism of Japan has become
politicized and is proceeding to an open and dangerous
stage.
Japan, which has always stigmatized our peaceful
satellite launch as a missile launch, said openly that its
test-fire of the rocket was done to cope with North
Korea’s missile, thus invoking military confrontation.
Japan should not misjudge our moratorium on satellite
launches and the peaceful character of our missile
programme. We strongly urge Japan to look squarely at
reality; put an end to its past inhumane crimes, and
sincerely turn to the road of peace in this new century.
That will be good for the future of Japan.
The most important task of Member States today
is to strengthen the central role of the United Nations
with regard to international issues. It is essential that
Member States honour and implement the United
Nations Charter in good faith. The United Nations
Charter enshrines the purposes and principles for
developing friendly international relations on the basis
of sovereign equality. However, certain countries do
not hesitate to undertake unilateral coercive actions and
even resort to the use of force against sovereign States,
ignoring and violating the United Nations Charter.
Member States should reject any attempt that goes
against the United Nations Charter and other principles
and norms of international law, and should strive to
establish a fair, new world structure based on the rule
of law, equality, mutual respect and cooperation for
mutual benefit, with a view to ensuring world security
and stability. If the leading role of the United Nations
in dealing with global issues is to be strengthened, the
United Nations should be reformed in a democratic
way. In this regard, we are of the view that it is
essential to strengthen the authority of the General
Assembly. The General Assembly must be empowered
to consider issues relating to world peace and security
and approve major resolutions of the Security Council
35

on these issues. Reform of the Security Council should
be pursued in the context of strengthening the authority
of the General Assembly. We hold that the Security
Council reform should be undertaken in full conformity
with its intrinsic purpose. The Security Council reform
must ensure enough representation of the developing
countries and full fairness in United Nations activities
for achieving international peace and security. We
place on record our strong opposition to considering in
any manner the permanent membership of Japan on the
Security Council when it has neither put an end to nor
recognized its past crimes, and while no agreement has
yet been reached on increasing the number of
permanent members.
One of the major challenges to the United
Nations and its Member States today is global poverty,
which grows ever more serious. Poverty, which has
resulted from colonialism in the past, continues to be
aggravated due to the inequitable international
monetary systems and neo-colonial policies. It also
becomes a factor that begets conflicts, diseases and
hunger and hampers the independent and creative life
of peoples and their enjoyment of the right to
development. If poverty is to be eradicated, a fair and
equitable international economic order should be
established and sustainable development ensured. We
will have to draw due lessons from the demonstrations
in Genoa last July and properly handle the issue of
globalization. In this regard, it should be underlined
that the developed countries and the international
financial institutions assume big responsibilities. The
United Nations should encourage Member States to
direct their attention to considering more practical
measures for eradicating poverty and achieving
development.
It is the consistent and principled position of the
Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea to oppose support, of whatever kind, to any
forms of terrorism. The large-scale terrorist incident
that occurred in the United States on 11 September was
very regrettable and tragic and reminds us of the
gravity of terrorism. The situation in Afghanistan is
now grave, where instability and unprecedented human
loss and material damage are brought about by the
military operation of the United States. The prevailing
situation requires that the leading role of the United
Nations in preventing terrorism be definitely
strengthened and the national obligations for the
elimination of terrorism be fully discharged by all
Member States.
Yesterday we signed the International Convention
for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and
acceded to the International Convention against the
Taking of Hostages. That shows that we are making
every possible effort to eliminate terrorism in the
world. As already stated, the aim of our opposing
terrorism is to promote global peace and stability,
defend the sovereignty of the country and nation and
protect the lives and property of the peoples of the
world. We are strongly of the view that imposing the
label of terrorist on countries that advocate sovereign
equality, while violating their sovereignty and
inflicting immeasurable pain on the people by resorting
to arbitrary armed intervention, sanctions, and so on,
should in no way be tolerated. There is no justification
in any case for the use of force or resorting to war and
taking innocent lives, undermining the situation and
destroying stability in the fight against terrorism.
My delegation wishes to reaffirm that the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue
to cooperate fully with all Member States to uphold
and implement the purposes and principles of the
United Nations Charter under the ideas of
independence, peace and friendship.

"
56,2001,MEX,"﻿Allow me to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of
the General Assembly. I should also like to extend my
congratulations to all the other members of the Bureau.
I am sure that your prestige and acknowledged
diplomatic skills will contribute to the successful work
of the General Assembly at this session.
I should also like to extend sincere
congratulations to this Organization and to the
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. Mexico welcomes the
fact that they were awarded this year’s Nobel Peace
Prize. That is a well-deserved recognition of the
dedication and clarity of vision that have marked the
work of the Secretary-General. It fills us with hope
regarding the efforts that this Organization will have to
make in order to meet the international challenges of
the twenty-first century.
I am addressing the General Assembly on behalf
of the women and men of my country, Mexico — a
country that is in the process of a profound
transformation, determined to strengthen democracy
and development, as well as to take on greater
responsibilities in shaping the new international system
with a view to fostering the prosperity, peace and
security that every inhabitant of the world deserves.
Mexican society is firmly committed to making
Mexico a country that contributes positively to the
worthiest objectives of human well-being. Aware that
there is a diversity of views on ways to achieve this
end, Mexico favours dialogue and agreement as
benchmarks to guide our endeavours. For Mexico the
United Nations is the best example of a global forum
where the voices of all men and women can merge into
a veritable concert of nations.
This is a Mexico that today renews its full
commitment to the United Nations — which not only
demands full respect for the purposes and principles of
the Charter of the United Nations and international law,
but that is also committed to the development of new,
universally observed rules and standards for the
regulation of international relations.
This is a Mexico that acts firmly in the defence
and protection of human rights and of democracy, at all
times and in all places, beginning, of course, within our
own territory, promoting full respect for fundamental
freedoms on the basis of tolerance, plurality and equity.
That is why my Government has initiated formal talks
with the various political parties in Mexico in order to
create favourable conditions for the promotion of a
constitutional reform that will allow Mexico to ratify
the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court,
which our country signed last year.
My Government has also started a necessary
updating of Mexico’s international obligations in the
field of human rights and international humanitarian
law. I have submitted for consideration by the Mexican
Senate the ratification, accession or acceptance of 11
other legal instruments in areas such as the forcible
disappearance of persons, the rights of the child, the
elimination of discrimination against women and the
protection of victims of international armed conflicts.
This new commitment on the part of Mexico to
the defence of human rights was also reflected in the
recent release, for humanitarian reasons, of Rodolfo
Montiel and Teodoro Cabrera, two environmental
activists in Mexico. This effort in the field of human
rights was also reflected in the broad disclosure of
State security agencies files, which will contribute to
increasing transparency regarding both present and past
events, thus making it a central element of my
administration. Mexico is taking concrete steps to
demonstrate that its commitment to the norms of the
international community is profound, sincere and
resolute.
17

The establishment of the United Nations more
than 50 years ago was the triumph of hope and freedom
over the suffering inflicted by the two world wars on
humanity, Today, however, threats to peace and
security do not emerge only from acts of aggression
among States. The new threats also arise from internal
conflicts that have cross-border effects, such as the
massive movement of displaced peoples, humanitarian
tragedies, grave violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms, and the exacerbation of
nationalism and religious fanaticism. These threats also
derive from worldwide phenomena such as
transnational organized crime, environmental
degradation, AIDS, and, of course, terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations.
There is no doubt that the magnitude and the
cruelty of the 11 September attacks have underscored
the vulnerability of States and the fragility of world
peace. It is a matter of concern to us that terrorist
groups can gain access to weapons of mass destruction
and that they also benefit from the traffic in arms,
organized crime, money laundering and drug
trafficking.
International terrorism not only flouts
international law, but it also endangers the stability of
the community of nations and economic development
processes, increasing unemployment and preventing
headway from being made in the alleviation of poverty.
For this reason, Mexico categorically rejects any
argument that seeks to justify terrorist activities.
Nothing — not the justness of a cause, the inequality of
forces with respect to an antagonist, poverty, or any
other grounds — can justify resorting to violence for
political ends.
Mexico reiterates its commitment to the fight
against terrorism and its decision to fully implement
resolution 1373 (2001) of the Security Council, which
establishes a series of measures for fighting
international terrorism and cutting its ties to practices
such as money laundering and organized crime.
We are firmly committed to the fight against new
threats to international peace and security. We believe
that the international community should meet these
challenges on the basis of three principles: first, the
supremacy of the United Nations; secondly, the
strengthening of international cooperation in resolving
global problems; and thirdly, the shaping of an
international order based on universally observed rules
and standards that meet the needs and aspirations of the
community of nations.
The Government of Mexico is determined to
assist in this effort. For that reason, Mexico feels
deeply honoured to have been elected, after a 20-year
absence, as a non-permanent member of the Security
Council for 2002-2003. It wishes to express its deep
commitment in this respect. We thank the international
community for its support and express our
determination to work actively and responsibly in
favour of the maintenance of international peace and
security. Our intention is that Mexico’s participation in
the Security Council will amplify the voices of
countries that are not usually heard on the international
scene.
In the search for lasting solutions to the new
threats now facing the international system, we must
not fail to address situations that have contributed to
their emergence, such as the lack of economic
development in many nations, the deepening of poverty
and exclusion. The challenges of development not only
remain with us, but have gradually increased with the
growing economic and social inequalities.
Mexico therefore calls on the international
community to give priority to the fight against poverty
and social exclusion. My country reaffirms its interest
in taking a lead in promoting the Agenda for
Development, providing it with renewed impetus and a
more effective approach, so that the United Nations
and the multilateral institutions can fulfil the
commitments contained in the Millennium Declaration.
It is because of the importance we attach to this
issue that Mexico offered to host the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Monterrey. I invite all heads of State or
Government to contribute, through their active
participation in the Conference, to strengthening the
international community’s efforts to promote world
development that is more just and more equitable, thus
creatively helping to improve the institutions
responsible for development financing.
We face the complex task of integrating our
societies, without exclusion, in the process of the joint
creation and equitable distribution of the opportunities
and benefits of globalization. We must ensure that all
citizens become stakeholders in that process; to do that,
we need an enabling international environment,
including sufficient levels of public and private
18

funding, along with the consolidation of an inclusive
international economic system that is conducive to
more equitable human development.
It will be impossible to make the world more just
if we permit the exclusion of the most vulnerable
groups. That is why my Government has just proposed
the establishment of a special committee to draft a
broad, comprehensive international convention to
promote and protect the rights and dignity of disabled
persons. The convention’s ultimate goal should be to
put in place a binding universal legal instrument for the
benefit of the disabled, guaranteeing the fundamental
rights of millions of men, women and children
worldwide. Mexico hopes that this important
endeavour will enjoy the support of the States Members
of the United Nations.
The history of relations among nations reflects
successes, but also sadly missed opportunities. Today,
our efforts to combat terrorism and to promote
development — the two focuses of my statement
today — may be the start of a new history of successes
for the United Nations.
The brutal events of 11 September make it
imperative that we, the international community,
engage in multilateral negotiations to formulate new
rules and standards to guarantee international peace
and security. There is no doubt that the way in which
our nations face the challenge of terrorism will have an
impact on the principles and priorities of international
relations in coming years.
As a country that is a bridge between regions and
cultures, Mexico is determined to play an active and
leading role in shaping an international system that can
meet the challenges facing us today.
This is a defining moment. Our fundamental
values and the vitality and viability of the United
Nations are being put to the test. The community of
nations must show that it can meet this extraordinary
challenge. This can be a new founding stage in the
history of the Organization, which will yield the
mandates and competences that are indispensable in a
world that is starkly different from that of 1945 but
whose aspirations to peace, respect for human dignity,
justice and freedom still remain those of the San
Francisco Charter.



"
56,2001,SVN,"﻿All our
admiration goes to the United States for making
possible the normal work of the United Nations and the
sessions of the General Assembly despite the recent
tragic events and all their global consequences. The
tragic crime, which affected the whole world, has
brutally confronted us with new, very serious and long-
term issues. This year’s general debate is thus an
opportunity and a new and great responsibility for us
all — a responsibility that must be accepted. Words of
condemnation and solidarity cannot be enough.
As we sympathize profoundly with the American
people, we must also tell the world in one voice that we
shall be deliberately and effectively allied in the future,
too, and that we will cooperate in the fight against
terrorism and in the eradication of the roots of that evil.
We will responsibly consider joint measures for a
world of more peace, greater freedom, solidarity and
security and more social justice for every person and
every nation, as well as ever less room for violence.
The idea of such a world requires us to avoid the
vortex of evil by undertaking a considered and resolute
response to the terrorist crime that was committed. The
immediate decisive military reaction of the United
States of America and other countries of the anti-
terrorist alliance was imperative.
We cannot simply rest at that, however. The
vortex of violence could threaten the democratic values
that humanity has set over its long development as the
measure of life in human society. That is why we are
ultimately obliged to avoid dividing cultures along the
principle of “us versus them”, dividing races, religions
and nations into the categories of civilized and
barbaric, and ascribing a priori fundamentalism to any
religion or civilization. The United Nations has
proclaimed this year the Year of Dialogue Among
Civilizations. We should seize this opportunity.
The contemporary world is diverse, but all
modern civilizations, cultures and major religions
respect human dignity and human life. Killing is an
aberration anywhere in the world. Sadly, human and
social pathology have made killing a lucrative business
and given international terrorism its own internal
dynamic. The instigators and perpetrators of these
despicable acts must be brought to justice, while it is
the responsibility of politics to remove the social and
political roots of this evil. It is the universal values of
all contemporary civilizations, such as the sanctity of
life and respect for human dignity, that enable the
creation of a global democracy based on a global ethos.
Resolute action and attention must focus on those
groups and individuals throughout the world who
brutally violate these principles and bring chaos,
murder and madness into our human world. Sadly,
there are enough such people in all cultures and
civilizations in all parts of the human world, including
the Christian world. They warn us that the global world
requires a different perception of the world and its
dilemmas, especially of the unequal distribution of
poverty and wealth, and that it raises questions to
which there are as yet no answers.
At the Millennium Summit last year, we came
very close to a realistic analysis of some of the major
economic, financial, social, cultural, political and
ecological effects of the global economy. We have
come closer to the important understanding that a
global world also requires global responsibility, and
that starts with the responsibility of each State.
States cannot arbitrarily do things that are in
complete conflict with the values of the democratic
world. In particular, cannot systematically violate basic
human rights and freedoms through State violence, nor
can they allow and encourage activities that threaten
the security of other countries and of the international
community, all in the name of their own sovereignty,
even within their own boundaries. Neither can they
ignore such activity by others and shut themselves
behind their own borders.
Last year’s position on humanitarian intervention
was the first step in this direction, yet, unfortunately,
not a sufficient one. The escalation of internationally
syndicated and organized terrorism demands that
further steps be taken. We cannot allow terrorism and
crime to abuse the opportunities offered by our
globalized world before the democratic world itself is
even in a position to put these opportunities to good
use in finding answers to completely new challenges.
I see these challenges in pronounced divisions
with global implications — divisions into owners of
capital, knowledge, ideas and information
technologies, on the one hand, and the billions
condemned to ignorance, a life of poverty and
vegetating without prospects at the margins of society,
11

on the other hand, in the ever greater financial
weakness of many nation-States and whole continents
that are left without development potentials or
prospects. In its relentless growth in power and
authority, global capital has long since gone beyond
State borders. However, it assumes no responsibility
for people’s social position and prospects for freedom
and democracy, for development and the future, for
people’s security. This responsibility is left to State
administrations.
I also see challenges in all kinds of
fundamentalism, even in the perverted understanding
of competitiveness which leads to production and
services with an ever-shrinking labour force, without
caring about people and nature, about life on the planet
and its future in an economy whose only motive and
aim is profit.
I see them also in the very pragmatically oriented
national and international politics operating in a
framework of dramatic simplicity and simplification,
and so their euphoric haste does not match their effect.
These are politics that ignore the dimension of time
and the duration of phenomena, such as the ecological
effects of genetic or biomedical interventions that are
not apparent immediately, but perhaps only in decades,
only with the coming generations.
I see challenges in the neglect of a comprehensive
and interconnected perspective on phenomena and
processes and in the disregard for the way in which
they are interconnected. All modern political, social
and ecological dramas and conflicts, as well as the
global socio-pathological cancers, are a result of
the interaction of a range of social forces and
elements. These phenomena — including international
terrorism — which are like epidemics, cannot be
confined within the borders of one or more States. This
applies to a host of phenomena, not just terrorism, but
also ecology, food, genetics, finance, the information
society and violence.
I also see challenges in the lack of
communication between the authorities and
increasingly global civil movements. Protests from
Seattle to Genoa are a powerful warning of the danger
of a division into two worlds that are beginning to
communicate solely through protests and violence.
The world today is clearly different from what it
was before. It could be better, but only with an
awareness of and mechanisms for assuming global
responsibility. This will enable the search for a
dynamic balance leaving no room for the chaos that
uncontrolled developments and acts of terror lead to. In
order to achieve this, we will have to change many
things.
Therefore, adapting the United Nations to these
new circumstances is, in a way, a call of distress. It will
not be a simple task. All 189 Members and their
representatives are bound primarily to the sovereignty
of their own States. However, the world clearly also
needs global governance. More than ever, we need the
United Nations as a global entity common to all States,
an entity that will be able, with the full authority that
rests on the global responsibility of States, to take
measures to the benefit of dynamic development, a
development of balanced forces and effects of the
global economy and globalization in general.
Otherwise, we will have to state the alternative.
We must accept the recognition that every society,
including the global one, must subordinate itself to
specific rules, or else it will be subjected to the rule of
crude force. Our difficulty is that we have overlooked
that the world has become a single society full of
internal contrasts, which in real life, especially in
international relations, recognizes and respects few
rules. What we urgently need is the common political
will to provide legitimacy to a universal system of
institutions and bodies, to which together we have
entrusted the power to prescribe common rules.
We need common political will to subject
ourselves to these rules and to respect them. The actual
power to prescribe rules would not be only in the hands
of States. Could this also be the United Nations? What
reforms are needed to achieve this, in order for the
United Nations to become this? We cannot wait with
the answers.
I am also speaking from the experience of
Slovenia, which I represent. In gaining independence
10 years ago, we experienced brief but serious violence
on our own territory. In our immediate vicinity, South-
Eastern Europe, we were faced with one of the most
barbaric policies since the Second World War, a policy
responsible for genocide and other forms of widespread
violence. With independence, Slovenia stepped into a
world that is prepared to behave better than the self-
enclosed world that the former Yugoslavia had become
in the final years of its life, when the equality of rights
of people and nations was violated and when hope for a
12

different future was denied. We have stepped onto the
path of freedom, and Slovenia has accepted its own
share of the responsibility for our global world.
I believe that this global world will tend toward a
dynamic balance, provided that States — large and
small, rich and poor, technologically developed and
marginalized — will together seek new solutions. The
venue can only be a fundamentally reformed United
Nations. It is within such a United Nations that both a
durable coalition against terrorism and a durable
coalition of common responsibility of all countries for
a world with more solidarity and social justice for all
humanity and all its parts can be achieved.



"
56,2001,MWI,"﻿At the outset, I would like to
convey the condolences of the people and the
Government of the Republic of Malawi to the
Government and the people of the United States of
America, as well as to the people and Government of
the Dominican Republic and other countries whose
nationals died in the plane crash that occurred in
Queens, here in New York, on 12 November 2001.
Similarly, I also wish to convey my condolences to the
Government and the people of Algeria, following the
recent flood disaster in which many lives were lost and
much property was damaged.
On behalf of the Malawi delegation, I feel deeply
honoured to join my fellow representatives in
congratulating Mr. Han Seung-soo on his assumption
of the presidency of the General Assembly. My
delegation looks forward to working closely with him
over the coming months in the pursuit of sustainable
solutions to the major global concerns and challenges
that continue to confront humankind and in the
promotion of international peace, security and
understanding.
Let me also take this opportunity to express
Malawi’s deep appreciation of and thanks to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, for his
exceptional skills, expertise and unswerving
commitment. We have noted with appreciation how his
tireless efforts and tenacity have resulted in progress
on most of the items of the agenda during his
presidency.
May I also take this opportunity to congratulate
our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and the United
Nations as a whole, for being jointly awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize for the year 2001. This demonstrates
the world’s recognition of the great strides the
Organization and the Secretary-General have made in
carrying forward the mandate of the United Nations.
This achievement is a rare feat that we should be proud
of, and it should serve to encourage all of us to do
more for the good of humanity.
I would also like to reiterate the congratulations
of the Government of Malawi to Mr. Kofi Annan on his
appointment to the post of Secretary-General for a
second term of office.
It is appalling and extremely unfortunate that at a
time when we thought we were making progress in
human development, some people among us conducted
heinous and abhorrent acts of terrorism. The terrorist
attacks in this country on 11 September serve to remind
us that the global village we are living in is under
threat from people who do not value human life and
democratic values. The Government of Malawi
believes that no cause or rationale can justify terrorism
as a means of achieving individual or group goals, as
such acts result in indiscriminate destruction of human
life and property. Clearly, it is evident that no nation
will be spared the far-reaching, devastating impact of
the attacks of 11 September.
The Government of Malawi unreservedly
condemns those acts and pledges its support and
cooperation in the fight against such unjustifiable
criminal acts. It is our sincere hope that all those
responsible for the terrorist attacks on the United States
of America and, indeed, elsewhere in the world, will
speedily be brought to justice. As we all share
sympathy with the victims of the recent terrorist
attacks, let us also demonstrate our unanimous resolve
to deal with this problem in a decisive and conclusive
manner by ratifying or acceding to all conventions
aimed at combating terrorism. That will send a strong
message to all parts of the world about our common
purpose to remove this evil from our midst.
It is common knowledge that terrorist groups and
individuals or entities operate in sophisticated
networks throughout the world. No country, therefore,
can decisively deal with this problem alone. It is
imperative that we all pool our resources to resolutely
deal with the cancer of terrorism. Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001) forms a sound and clear basis
on which our cooperation should be anchored. It is
abundantly clear that, if this resolution can be seriously
implemented, it may effectively frustrate and check
terrorist activities.
It will be recalled that the strategic priority of the
Millennium Summit held last year was to find ways of
reshaping and reorienting the focus of the United
Nations that would inspire a renewed and shared sense
of universal mission, thereby enabling it to make a real,
quantifiable difference in the lives of “We, the peoples”
in the new millennium.
And yet, regrettably, one year after that watershed
event, the commitments of the Millennium Summit
already seem to be anything but what they are —
commitments — and to be mere platitudes on the part
of the developed countries. The Summit’s much-
trumpeted visions, goals and collective social
29

objectives already appear to have been consigned to the
same fate of non-fulfilment that has befallen similar,
previous commitments of the rich nations.
It is saddening that, at the height of a global
integration drive, a shockingly large number of
countries remains outside the globalization loop, while
a handful of economically powerful countries of the
North controls the pace and terms of participation in
the global economy, not least the skewed distribution
of its benefits. It is equally disheartening to note, in
particular, that the African continent is nowhere near
attaining even half as much of the benefit that it has
strenuously striven for in the global economy. Now
more than ever, our continent is fast sliding deeper and
deeper into a plight of deteriorating mass poverty.
This situation is aggravated by mounting external
debt, crumbling public infrastructure, marginally
functional social services, severe environmental
degradation, rising illiteracy and the rapid depletion of
human resources and the skilled labour force as a result
of endless armed conflicts and the devastation caused
by epidemics, such as those of HIV/AIDS, malaria,
tuberculosis and other transmissible infections. These
are some of the many issues that we have discussed
time and again in this Assembly and other forums, and
yet we seem to be getting nowhere.
Clearly, Africa is under the threat of imminent
virtual exclusion from the mainstream global
economy — more so if the underlying spirit, ideals,
goals and commitments of the Millennium Summit are
not faithfully upheld to ensure the concrete and
effective integration of the developing countries into
the global economic framework on terms that reflect a
shared future of promise of equality, equity, prosperity
for all and a just world.
In spite of all these apprehensions, my delegation
is still encouraged by the wide global consensus on a
range of major issues of critical concern to the least
developed countries of Africa. The positive
conclusions reached during the special session on
HIV/AIDS and the world Conferences that took place
this year — the Third United Nations Conference on
the Least Developed Countries, the United Nations
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and
Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and the World
Conference against Racism and Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance — reflect a newly
emerging global recognition that there is an urgent
need to begin concretely addressing the issues that will
aggressively advance the economic and social progress
of the less developed nations. The declarations and
programmes of action agreed at those Conferences
must be the centrepiece of any genuine international
crusade to reduce social and economic disparities and
inequalities between the North and the South. Indeed,
the persistence of these inequalities and injustices, in
our view, is the root cause of the political, economic
and social turmoil currently tearing apart the African
countries and some parts of the world. Malawi would
like to reaffirm its steadfast commitment to the
declarations of commitment, actions and programmes
agreed at these Conferences.
What the developing countries need is a chance
for a fresh start, which can come about only through a
comprehensive package of total debt forgiveness that
cuts across the existing initiatives for debt relief,
including the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Debt Initiative. We also need increased
technical assistance, enhanced official development
assistance and much greater flows of capital resources
and foreign direct investment from developed
countries.
We would also like to insist on the genuine
commitment of the North to the full integration of our
economies into globalized markets through the removal
of technical obstacles placed in the way of our exports.
The United Nations ought to play a leading role in
breaking down the walls of protectionism and to
sustain the search for measures that can help the poor
nations wriggle out of their poverty and vulnerability.
This is in line with the spirit of the resolutions and
decisions taken at last year’s World Summit for Social
Development.
I take this opportunity to pay special tribute to
Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the numerous
initiatives that he has undertaken to prevent violent
conflicts in Africa and other troubled regions of the
world. The recent release to the Security Council of his
special report on conflict prevention, which addresses
in depth the many issues that arose from the Brahimi
report, is one practical demonstration of the Secretary-
General’s overpowering resolve to ensure that the
international community addresses political disputes
and tensions before they degenerate into all-out armed
confrontations and violent conflicts. These pose a
major challenge and real threat to international peace
and security.
30

In the same vein, to effectively tame violent
conflicts, the United Nations needs to deal decisively
with the problem of the illicit trade and trafficking in
small arms and light weapons. Their easy availability,
transfer and proliferation remain at the centre of the
intractability of violent conflicts, rising insecurity and
instability in some parts of Africa.
My delegation is most thankful for the success,
albeit measured, achieved during the recent United
Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms
and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. In spite of a
spirited bid by others to water down the agreed global
consensus and programme of action, Africa takes heart
in the holding of the Conference itself as a good
starting point for putting in place effective measures to
curb the immeasurable damage caused by these deadly
weapons.
Many evils such as slavery, the slave trade,
colonialism, apartheid, genocide, the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, poverty and starvation have afflicted the
continent of Africa and its people. These evils have
been entrenched to such an extent that even the
international media only look forward to reporting on
the tragedies befalling the continent. However, despite
these ills, Africa deserves a special place in the
economic, political and social spheres of the world. It
is in cognizance of this fact that our leaders, in their
quest for a prosperous and dynamic Africa, resolved to
transform the Organization of African Unity into the
African Union.
The birth of the Union has ushered in the New
African Initiative, now renamed the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development, which seeks to pull Africa
out of stagnation and put the continent on a new
footing for economic recovery and prosperity as well
as for the promotion of human rights and good
governance. As a developing region with very limited
financial resources, we shall rely on our cooperating
partners in order to ensure that our dream for a new
Africa is realized. Therefore, I wish to appeal for
global support for this noble initiative being espoused
by our leaders so that the people of the African
continent may see real social, economic and political
transformation for the betterment of their lives.
Malawi recently assumed the one-year rotating
chairmanship of the Southern African Development
Community (SADC). While SADC member States take
pride in the relative peace and stability that prevail in
much of the subregion, we still have serious concerns
about the persistent general economic slowdown and
the deterioration of human development in the
subregion. SADC is experiencing an unfair share of
problems and challenges which require the
international community’s enhanced generous
assistance and good will.
It is common knowledge that SADC is reeling
under the pressures of the untold devastation caused by
the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which is unravelling decades
of hard-earned economic gains. The subregion
accounts for 75 per cent of the world’s total number —
that is, 36 million — of people living with deadly
HIV/AIDS. SADC’s modest average economic growth
rate of 3.2 per cent becomes a cause for serious
concern when compared with its staggering population
growth rate of nearly the same level.
Apart from causing untold human suffering, the
continuing civil wars in Angola and the Democratic
Republic of the Congo — two of the subregion’s
potential economic powerhouses — have hamstrung
every genuine endeavour by SADC to promote itself as
a prime destination for foreign capital and investment.
Therefore, we call upon the United Nations to step up
its efforts to bring pressure to bear on the belligerents
in Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
so that the ongoing peace initiatives can yield the rich
rewards of an early and decisive settlement. We also
call upon the international community to continue
rendering vital support and cooperation to the peace
facilitator in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to
ensure that the inter-Congolese dialogue bears fruit and
serves to consolidate the gains achieved so far by the
United Nations peacekeeping operation and the Lusaka
peace process.
SADC would also like to see much more pressure
exerted on Jonas Savimbi in order to force UNITA to
return to the 1994 Lusaka peace framework. Only the
intensification of the United Nations sanctions against
UNITA and the punishment of those violating the
embargo would genuinely achieve that goal.
The attainment of durable peace and stability in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola and
the removal of tensions in the rest of the subregion
would put SADC on a stronger footing for economic
recovery and a firmer foundation for sustainable peace,
security and tangible economic growth and
development.
31

Time and again, Malawi has spoken in favour of
readmission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to
United Nations membership, which would grant to that
country a well-deserved opportunity for active
engagement in international affairs. Malawi finds it
grossly unjust that the hard-working and peace-loving
people of Taiwan should suffer diplomatic isolation so
unnecessarily. Therefore, Malawi would like to appeal
to the entire United Nations membership to look
beyond narrow political considerations and face up to
the geopolitical and economic realities that obtain on
both sides of the Taiwan Straits. The diplomatic
isolation of Taiwan remains both a curiosity and a
contradiction in terms. First, almost every country
deals with Taiwan in terms of trade and other forms of
bilateral cooperation. Secondly, the isolation of Taiwan
violates its people’s inalienable right to free association
within the framework of the United Nations Charter.
Lastly, let me reaffirm Malawi’s trust and
confidence in the leadership role of the United Nations
in making our world a better place in which to live. I
would also like to reaffirm Malawi’s unwavering
commitment to its obligations and responsibilities as a
member of the international community of nations.





"
56,2001,KEN,"﻿I congratulate you,
Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the
fifty-sixth session of the United Nations General
Assembly. I would also like to extend my sincere
congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-
General, for his re-election to a second term in office
and for the richly deserved Nobel Peace Prize awarded
to him and the United Nations Organization. This is an
acknowledgement of his tireless efforts in the service
of mankind and, as the Secretary-General has said, of a
challenge to do better and, I hope, faster. I would like
to assure the Secretary-General of my Government’s
cooperation and firm commitment in that regard.
The achievements of the United Nations
Organization are many and varied, while its increasing
relevance in an ever more complex international
environment is clear to us. Its objectives are still as
valid and noble today as they were 56 years ago and, I
believe, can only be achieved by our continued
commitment, careful vigilance and firm action.
I would now like to turn my attention to an issue
that is uppermost in my mind and that has changed the
way we live and do business, maybe forever. I am
referring to the terrorist attacks on the United States of
America, an important, worthy and respected Member
of the United Nations Organization and a long-standing
and trusted friend of Kenya.
Terrorism poses a real threat to international
peace and security and must be condemned by people
of good will throughout the world. Terrorism cannot be
justified in any form whatsoever. No philosophy,
religion or creed can allow the taking away of innocent
lives and the destruction of valuable property. The
people of Kenya experienced first-hand the devastating
effects of terrorism in August 1998. The attack on
Kenya, a country faced with challenges of poverty and
underdevelopment, was especially severe and continues
to affect us. Kenya understands well the pain of those
4

affected by the recent attacks in the United States of
America and fully supports the efforts being led by the
President of the United States of America, Mr. George
W. Bush, and his administration to fight terrorism in all
its forms.
In order to carry out one of its fundamental
objectives, that of the maintenance of international
peace and security, the United Nations, and in
particular its membership, must intensify efforts to
resolve all outstanding and persistent conflicts raging
in many parts of the world. We the Member States of
the United Nations must work very closely to ensure
that we completely disable the terrorist machinery. We
must particularly support the coalition against
terrorism.
As an Organization, we must address the issue of
conflicts seriously. Conflict situations impede
development, provide an atmosphere for the illegal
exploitation of resources, the abuse of children, the
influx of refugees, the spread of dangerous weapons
and the deepening of poverty, to mention just a few
aspects. Conflicts steal the dreams, hopes, aspirations
and opportunities of many, many people, especially
children. We must intensify our efforts in the search for
the peaceful and speedy resolution of conflicts.
The conflicts in Africa continue to destabilize our
continent. The United Nations and its membership
must intensify efforts to find solutions to the conflicts.
The peaceful resolution of conflicts is a
fundamental tenet of Kenya’s foreign policy. It is a
matter of record that I have spared no effort throughout
my political career in search of peaceful solutions to
conflicts in our region and elsewhere. Currently, Kenya
is involved in peace negotiations in southern Sudan,
Somalia, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. We would like more international involvement
in peace efforts in Africa.
The biggest challenge facing the African
continent today is the increasing level of poverty.
Poverty has become an obstacle, a roadblock to every
effort we are making at improving the overall welfare
of our people.
Poverty is a fertile breeding ground for conflict
and instability, and even terrorism. It is therefore
regrettable that very little progress, if any, has been
made since the World Summit for Social Development,
held in Copenhagen in 1995. I remind members that the
main outcome of that Summit was the resolve to
eradicate poverty as an obstacle to human
development.
We cannot succeed in improving the lives of our
people without the wholehearted engagement of the
international community. The global target of reducing
poverty by half by the year 2015 cannot be achieved
without tangible availability of resources.
Our efforts at attacking poverty are further
undermined by the scourge of HIV/AIDS and other
treatable diseases like malaria and tuberculosis, which
have the potential of reversing all the socio-economic
gains we have worked so hard to achieve.
I applaud the Secretary-General for organizing a
special session on HIV/AIDS earlier this year. The
establishment of the Global AIDS Fund is a very
welcome development. I look forward to its
contribution and active participation in our daily
struggle against HIV/AIDS. Kenya calls on the
international community to lend its full support to the
fund.
The effect of marginalization on developing
countries posed by the accelerated process of
globalization must be addressed as a matter of priority.
It is my hope that the Fourth World Trade Organization
Ministerial Conference in Doha, Qatar, will address the
issue of the imbalance in international trade more
effectively. The issue of meaningful market access,
particularly for agricultural products, must be resolved
quickly. Protectionist policies are in no country's
interest and definitely contradict the principles of free
trade and the process of liberalization. In addition,
resources must be made available to the World Trade
Organization by our partners to enable it to provide
technical assistance and capacity-building to
developing countries.
Solutions in the form of better terms of trade and
market access must go hand-in-hand with the flow of
foreign direct investment to developing countries.
Many African countries have taken bold initiatives to
provide a conducive environment for investors. These
efforts need to be supported by clear policies of
developed countries to encourage private sector
investment in Africa.
We urgently need to be freed from the burdens
that are diverting vital resources from our economic
development. Debt relief is necessary. It is in our
5

common interest that our economies be restored to
health in a meaningful time frame.
My concluding remarks relate to the desire for
equity, fair play and justice for all. This is one of the
cardinal objectives of the United Nations. I welcome
the efforts that the Organization has made in the pursuit
of these objectives.
We welcome these efforts. Yet it is a matter of
concern that commitments in the programmes of action
agreed upon have not been fully complied with. This
situation must be reversed. My challenge to the
Organization is that these commitments be honoured so
that humanity can feel that the United Nations is truly
an organization of hope for many nations and peoples
throughout the world. We cannot continue doing what
has so far failed. We need to work on new ways of
addressing our common problems. My Government
stands ready to do its part, and I challenge other
Governments to do theirs. Together we shall succeed in
meeting our commitments to have poverty reduced by
half by 2015.



"
56,2001,LCA,"﻿Allow me first to
offer the congratulations of the delegation of Saint
Lucia to the President of the General Assembly on his
election. We wish to assure him of our full support for
the successful outcome of these deliberations.
As we meet with the global fraternity of nations
during this fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly,
Saint Lucia once more joins its voice with those who
have deplored and condemned the despicable acts of
terror of 11 September 2001, that so brutalized our
great host city, New York, and our host country, as they
cruelly and callously extinguished thousands of
innocent and vibrant lives. We are however heartened
by the universal resolve of all peace-loving nations to
rid the earth of the scourge of terrorism. We have
noted, too, how quickly and steadfastly some of these
nations have come together as a coalition in pursuit of
that endeavour and have embarked on a war against
terrorism.
We should, however, recognize that the defeat of
this type of terrorism, as laudable and desirable an act
as it may be, will not by itself create a greater
humanity or a better world. For there are billions in the
world today who have not been at war, but who have
not known peace; they suffer from other terrors. There
are millions, so many of whom are children, who
succumb daily to the horrors of malnutrition and
starvation. There are still millions of others who are
wasting away from disease. Thousands of people see
their human rights violated on a daily basis. We
therefore need to remind ourselves that there are many
other issues that have been engendering their own
brand of fear and conflict in the world today, and that
more often than not the underlying cause of such
conflict is the lack of economic and human
development.
If we are to attain greater humanity, and if we are
to create a better world, we must commit ourselves to a
greater collective responsibility towards all those other
issues. We must adopt the same rapid global militaristic
response to solving them as that in the new war on
terrorism. Some of these issues have been with us for
too long and by now should have disappeared from the
world agenda. Our fragile humanity cannot endure
another century of widening disparity between and
within nations. We can no longer withstand the silent
battle between the haves and the have nots. Humanity
cannot tolerate ever increasing disease, deprivation,
hunger, illiteracy, poverty, economic strife and war.
For the ideal of a greater humanity not to
continue to elude us, we must now found it on this new
attitude, this new vision, in which people everywhere,
nations everywhere, are galvanized into higher levels
of cooperation in pursuit of these common concerns, in
39

particular concerns such as the guarantee of economic
and social security, sustainable development and
governance of the multilateral trading system. In this
new philosophy of cooperation, the United Nations
must play the central role.
It is from this perspective that Saint Lucia
reiterates its call for the adoption of a holistic approach
towards poverty eradication. Saint Lucia is firm in its
view that the United Nations is the only Organization
capable of pooling the requisite knowledge and
financial resources for global action against poverty.
International cooperation on poverty eradication must
give due consideration to, among other things, debt
forgiveness through concerted support for an improved
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt
Initiative. It must ensure special and differential
treatment on a contractual basis for developing
countries and sustained financial support for the
Organization’s development programmes.
The HIV/AIDS plague, which continues to ravage
the world, also demands this new collective response.
Saint Lucia acknowledges that the United Nations has
already begun spearheading the global fight against
HIV/AIDS. The United Nations special session on
HIV/AIDS has done a great deal to raise global
awareness about the magnitude of the pandemic. Saint
Lucia also welcomes the establishment of the Global
AIDS and Health Fund, which is intended to increase
the ability of the global community to combat this
scourge. However, if humanity is to win the fight
against this twentieth century plague, the international
community must make available new and additional
financial resources towards research and the
development of affordable drugs. We stress that these
drugs must be cheap and widely obtainable. It is time
that corporations cease putting the acquisition of more
and more profit ahead of the health and lives of the
unfortunate who have been afflicted by diseases such
as AIDS. Are we not being inhumane when our
overriding objective is to make as huge a profit as
possible on the sickness of so many, rather than
ensuring that the essential drugs that they need to end
their suffering are easily available?
As we survey the multilateral trading system,
Saint Lucia continues to be concerned that the thrust
towards allowing market forces to totally determine the
scope, structure and outcomes of economic activity is
not being counterbalanced by mechanisms to fairly
distribute welfare gains and to protect the more
vulnerable, small States like Saint Lucia from the
consequences of market failure.
The perilous state of the banana industry in Saint
Lucia and the other Windward Islands of the Eastern
Caribbean is the painful outcome of that thrust, an ill-
advised policy of globalization and trade liberalization
at all costs. The charge of World Trade Organization
(WTO) incompatibility that was made against the
preferential trade regime, justly accorded to Saint
Lucia and other Agricultural Commodities Committee
banana-producing countries under the Lomé
Agreement, has brought about the near collapse of this
vital industry. Saint Lucia welcomes the recent
initiative by the United States for a new licensing
agreement for the trading of bananas on the European
market, an initiative that brought an end to the
debilitating banana war with Europe.
Saint Lucia once more wishes to place on record
its deep appreciation for the perseverance and fortitude
of the European Union, which stood by its international
obligations throughout these years of dispute. We
applaud the news just in from Doha that, after 18
months, a WTO waiver has finally been granted to the
Cotonou Agreement, thus paving the way for the
implementation of the new banana-marketing
arrangements. We hope that these recent developments
are not too late to save our industry. But the case of the
great banana dispute will always remain as a striking
testimony to the inequities of the liberalized trading
system.
Saint Lucia is also concerned about the actions of
several organizations, such as the World Economic
Council and the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), which seem to
be attempting to usurp the traditional roles and
functions of the United Nations and of national
Governments. In the face of the near demise of the
vital banana industry, Saint Lucia and the other islands
of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
(OECS) sought to diversify their economies by
building on their competitive advantage in offshore
financial services. But OECD countries denounced our
efforts as being harmful to them, and resorted to
branding Caribbean offshore financial services as
havens for criminal activity. For us, this is a violation
of our territorial integrity, our sovereignty and our
economic rights. Saint Lucia accepts that it has an
obligation to ensure that its financial services are not
used by unscrupulous individuals and interests.
40

However, Saint Lucia cannot, in all good conscience,
surrender its sovereignty to a governance system
imposed by a few.
In the face of these selfish actions by developed
countries and the myopia of globalization, the role of
the United Nations in bringing order into the system
has become even more pressing. Saint Lucia therefore
renews its call for a rebirth of the United Nations
system, not only as an organization concerned with
peacekeeping operations and humanitarian missions,
but also as an institution that is capable of effectively
governing the global economic system in a way that
ensures an equitable redistribution of the benefits of
economic growth. We need a United Nations that will
safeguard against global economic crises and promote
the adoption of sustainable developmental policies.
In that context, and with the emerging spectre of
a global economic recession, the upcoming United
Nations Conference on Financing for Development
becomes even more relevant, even more urgent. That
Conference is of enormous importance to the small
island developing States of the Caribbean, faced as we
are by low aggregate gross domestic product, low
domestic savings and investment capacity and
undeveloped financial markets. The development
agenda of the Caribbean region cannot proceed without
the requisite financing, nor can it be sustained without
an enabling international environment. We must all
therefore commit ourselves to ensuring the success of
the Conference.
Our renewed call for the rebirth of the United
nations is further prompted by the observation that it is
systematically being displaced as a source of guidance
and as a fount of collective wisdom on global issues.
We fear that if the United Nations continues to be
marginalized in determining global development
policies and strategies, then the concerns of developing
countries will be excluded from the global agenda. A
recent example of this is the decision not to include
issues relating to the implementation of the Programme
of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing States in the preparatory meetings
for the World Summit on Sustainable Development. We
see this as undermining the spirit of the United Nations
resolution that convened the United Nations Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing States, held in Barbados in 1994.
Indeed, it was recognized then that the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development had not
paid sufficient attention to the special circumstances of
small island developing States.
There are two other examples of United Nations
inaction that leave us very concerned. Saint Lucia
laments the adoption by the United Nations of a
watered down instrument on small arms. In small
island developing States like Saint Lucia, growing
economic instability has given rise to increased levels
of drug-related crime. In the Caribbean region, small
arms are used in most of the violent crimes that are
committed against our law-abiding citizens. The global
trade in small arms must therefore be stemmed in the
interest of peace and stability. A weak small arms
document was therefore not what we required.
We remain deeply concerned that the Plan of
Action for the first International Decade for the
Eradication of Colonialism did not result in the
decolonization of the remaining 17, mostly small
island, Non-Self-Governing Territories. Accordingly,
we request, as a matter of priority, that the necessary
resources and expertise be provided to implement the
long-standing resolutions on decolonization and the
critical analyses called for in the Plan of Action of the
present International Decade.
I close by extending on behalf of the Government
and the people of Saint Lucia, our warmest
congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and
the hard-working staff of the United Nations on the
recent award of the Nobel Peace Prize. We regard this
award as an eloquent testimony to the sterling efforts
of the Organization to build a peaceful world. At the
same time, we see the award as a challenge to the
United Nations to remain resolute in its commitment to
the multilateral framework and not to allow itself to
become incapacitated by inaction, especially where the
defence of human security is concerned.
We all recognize that the events of 11 September
have brought about a new era in world affairs and new
challenges for all of us, in particular for the United
Nations. In the times that lie ahead the United Nations
system must do more that it has done before. It must
resist the use of force in situations where wisdom is
needed. It must work harder at becoming a source of
hope to the hopeless and a reservoir of power to the
powerless. It must redouble its efforts to restore the
preservation of humanity as the highest of all ideals.
The horror of 11 September has shocked some of
us into establishing a coalition against terrorism. It is
41

time for the tragedy of underdevelopment to shock all
of us into forging new coalitions for development. At
this juncture, let us use this United Nations, energized
by its Nobel award, to create these coalitions. Let us
build a coalition in defence of the wretched of the
earth — to end their hunger, to terminate their poverty,
to eradicate their diseases and to forever banish their
wretchedness.



"
56,2001,GTM,"﻿Let me first condemn the monstrous attack on the
people and the Government of our host country. In
condemning it in the strongest possible terms, we
declare ourselves in full solidarity with the people and
the Government of the United States, the families of
each and every one of the victims, whatever his or her
nationality, and the residents of this great city of New
York. We also associate ourselves unreservedly with
the resolutions adopted last month by the Assembly
and the Security Council. We will carry on in our
commitment to the elimination of terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations.
Before taking up our Government programme and
the fulfilment of the Peace Agreements, and our
position on certain of the items on the agenda for this
session, I wish to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on
your election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. I have no doubt that your well-proven
capabilities and your recognized wisdom will enable
you to bring our deliberations to a fully successful
outcome.
I wish further to join the representatives who
have taken the floor before me in commending the
Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan
for his wise leadership. We hail his well-deserved re-
election and rejoice at the recognition that both he and
the Organization have received, through the award of
the Nobel Peace Prize.
I come, like many of those gathered here, from a
small country that mirrors the grave problems facing
today’s world. Today we still do not enjoy the major
benefits of the great scientific and technological
advances, and we still suffer from great social
inequalities. Ours is a small country that is doing its
best to attain peace and democracy — a country that
believes in the rewards of economic freedom, but also
in social justice. It is a country that has opened itself
up to the world, although the world has perhaps not
opened itself up reciprocally in the same way. It is a
country that works and produces by making great
efforts but that, in the present circumstances, is
receiving less and less for those efforts.
In this context, our contribution to world peace
and democracy is diminished to the same extent that
inequality, social injustice and poverty imperil our
peace and our democracy.
2

Today the struggle against terrorism is the
struggle against inequality in international economic
relations; it is the struggle against ignorance, injustice,
discrimination, intolerance, exclusion and poverty.
There will be no peace if we do not eradicate these
scourges. A peace that goes hand in hand with
inequality, poverty and injustice is a bad peace. And let
us not forget that a bad peace is worse than war.
We are making strenuous efforts to advance in
implementing our own Peace Agreements, which
coincide with our Government programme. The time
that has elapsed since I addressed the Millennium
Summit has witnessed intensive activities. I can point
to significant progress, but I must also admit to some
setbacks, which are due primarily to an unfavourable
international environment, which has affected the
economy in an extremely adverse way. I draw attention
to this situation, because full compliance with the
commitments contained in the Peace Agreements
would be far easier in a context of economic growth
than in the framework of serious fiscal restrictions and
increasing demands on the Government.
On a different matter, I would like to comment
briefly on the United Nations presence in Guatemala. I
wish to reiterate how much we appreciate the United
Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala
(MINUGUA). We trust that its mandate will be
extended until the end of 2003 so that we can in a
progressive and orderly way transfer its functions both
to national institutions and, wherever possible, to the
United Nations programmes and agencies.
As far as our international relations are
concerned, I would like to mention the significant
progress made in the process of finding a peaceful
resolution to the historical dispute between ourselves
and Belize. In keeping with the principles of peaceful
settlement of disputes between States, we have
confirmed with deeds our commitment to dialogue as
the way of settling disputes. The commission of
facilitators appointed last year, within the framework
of the regional organization to which both States
belong, the Organization of American States, will soon
submit its report. Its fundamental aim is to work out
and prepare courses of action to make progress in
resolving the dispute.
We reiterate our firm support for Central
American integration and our commitment to the rest
of Latin America and the Caribbean. Our Government
has supported major initiatives in the area of regional
and subregional integration, and is working hard to
overcome problems left over from age-old border
disputes in Central America.
As to our position on other international conflicts,
we voice the hope that the differences or divisions that
persist between fraternal peoples in the Middle East,
Asia and Africa will yield to resolution peacefully
through dialogue. I also wish to take this opportunity to
reiterate before this Assembly our concern over the
situation of the 23 million citizens of the Republic of
China on Taiwan, whose aspiration to be represented in
international organizations has not yet been fully
satisfied. The Central American countries in general,
and Guatemala in particular, believe they could indeed
make a positive contribution to peace and democracy in
the world.
I would now like to comment briefly on our
views regarding the principal issues with which this
Assembly will have to deal at the current session. First,
I reiterate our full support for the United Nations as the
supreme expression of multilateralism. We are
convinced that the United Nations will have a crucial
role to play in the twenty-first century. It is our view
that the Millennium Declaration that our heads of State
and Government issued a year ago offers the right
agenda for our priorities and for the steps to be taken to
attain the goals set.
Second, we agree that it is necessary to adapt the
Organization to the exigencies of globalization and to
this post-cold-war era. It is up to us, the Member
Governments, to further this process of adaptation in
various areas, such as intergovernmental forums, the
efficiency and efficacy of the Secretariat, the setting of
priorities in shaping the programme of activities and
the financial strengthening of the Organization.
Third, of the pending reforms, the one that has
received the most attention is that concerning the
Security Council. One cannot but be frustrated at the
limited progress made in this area at previous sessions
of the General Assembly. Now more than ever before
we must redouble our efforts to endow that body with
greater efficacy, broader representativity and more
transparency in its working procedures. To achieve
these objectives, we advocate, inter alia, an increase in
the number of Council members, as well as a very
sparse use of the veto power. We also believe that now
3

more than ever before it is necessary that the Security
Council’s work be monitored by the General Assembly.
Fourth, deeply shocked by the events that
occurred in this country on 11 September, we reiterate
our full and complete opposition to terrorism, and we
will support any collective action by the international
community to combat this scourge. As a matter of fact,
we are already working to comply with the spirit and
the letter of the undertakings embodied in Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), within the parameters
of a democratic society that aspires to guarantee the
human rights of its members.
Fifth, we advocate the strengthening of the
General Assembly, and we congratulate the President
of its fifty-fifth session on his initiative to revitalize its
working methods and procedures. We trust that this
action will continue under the current presidency and
that it will extend to the wider task of reforming the
Assembly, in pursuance of the aims of the Millennium
Declaration.
Sixth, we are convinced of the need to strengthen
our collective capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts,
both between States and at the national level. We
believe that the report of the Panel on United Nations
Peace Operations provides an adequate basis for
achieving this purpose.
Seventh, as regards general disarmament, we
insist on the need for progress towards the total
elimination of nuclear, chemical and bacteriological
weapons, the illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons, and the use of anti-personnel mines and other
explosive devices. In this connection, we support all
concrete actions by the United Nations to accomplish
these aims, including those that look to the
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all
regions of the world. As regards the control of illicit
trade in small arms and light weapons, we are of the
view that the results of the Conference held last July to
deal with this problem, while positive if allowance is
made for this being the first step taken at the global
level to deal with the matter, are nevertheless
inadequate.
Eighth, we offer our full support for and active
participation in the principal meetings scheduled for
the years ahead, among which I wish to highlight the
International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held in Monterrey, Mexico, next
March, as well as the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, to be held in Johannesburg.
Ninth, in a world characterized by ever greater
interdependence, multilateral diplomacy plays a crucial
role in the fight against environmental degradation.
Guatemala, as a party to the main international treaties
relating to the environment, reiterates its commitment
to the maintenance of ecological balance.
Finally, we consider that the United Nations
should continue devoting itself to what we call the
great unfinished business of the twentieth century —
namely, the elimination of world poverty. Together
with the multilateral financial agencies, our
Organization should play a crucial role in ensuring that
the benefits of globalization are widely shared among
all countries, not only among a few of them; this
requires action at the level of each country and at the
international level.
Given the globalization process the world is
going through, we must recognize, as stated by the
great Mexican thinker Carlos Fuentes, that unregulated
globalization leads to more profound economic and
social imbalance. We cannot turn economic policy into
a mere balancing of accounts in which human beings
and populations are not taken into consideration. How
can we make demands on some countries when those
demands are not made of others in similar conditions?
Civilization is being put to the test. The question
is how to eliminate the universal threat posed by
terrorism and at the same time maintain and renew the
ethical, political, legal and social bases for ensuring
coexistence in a globalized world. The only solution is
to focus on fighting for more freedom, more
democracy, more tolerance and more justice. In this
respect, I would like to share with the Assembly the
words of a distinguished Guatemalan poet, Otto René
Castillo:
“We have suffered in so many places the blows of
the executioner and written his name so many
times on so little skin, that we cannot die, for
liberty has no death”.
May God bless and protect us.



"
56,2001,NGA,"﻿Recent events have
manifestly brought to the fore the importance and
relevance of the United Nations in the pursuit of global
peace, security and stability. Only last year in this
historic Hall, world leaders at the Millennium Summit
reaffirmed their solemn commitment to strengthen the
capacity of the Organization in this very important
area. Yet, two months ago, on 11 September 2001, the
efforts of our Organization were temporarily called into
question by terrorist attacks on the United States.
As a country which was directly affected by the
first terrorist bombings in Dar es Salaam in 1998, in
which our embassy building was destroyed, and
because we lost nationals at the attack on the World
Trade Center, Nigeria fully identifies with the rage and
grief of the bereaved families and the victims of these
barbaric acts.
Terrorism is a global menace that challenges the
very basis of our civilization. It must therefore be
confronted globally. That is why Nigeria fully endorses
the prompt action taken by the General Assembly in
condemning these attacks. We fully support Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), because the measures
called for in the resolution would significantly reduce
the capacity of terrorists to carry out such acts. Nigeria
is committed to the implementation of the resolution’s
provisions. Let us sustain the unity of purpose and
resolve that the terrorist attacks have generated by
strengthening the cooperation and coordination among
our countries. The terrorists and their supporters should
be exposed for what they are: fringe elements
undeserving of a respectable place in the comity of
nations. Our strategies therefore should be informed,
consistent and focused.
In some respects, the grave challenges that we
face today also offer new possibilities for cooperation
previously unimaginable. Our Organization has not
only pursued the goal of international peace and
security, but it has also served as a focal point for the
promotion of other important agendas, particularly in
the areas of socio-economic development, the rule of
law, good governance and respect for human rights.
These goals, which reflect the aspirations of Member
States to build a new world free of conflict, prejudice,
discrimination and oppression, must remain the
enduring preoccupation of our common enterprise. For
this, we have a clear compass, not only in the Charter
of our Organization, but also in the solemn
commitment of our leaders, as reflected in the
Millennium Declaration. Let us strive to translate these
commitments into practical policies for the benefit of
our peoples.
My country’s long-standing commitment to
fostering the objectives of the United Nations in the
area of conflict prevention, peace and stability is well
known. It is regrettable that conflicts and wars continue
to be waged in many parts of the world. It is
particularly disheartening that Africa has had a
disproportionate share of these conflicts and wars, with
devastating impact on our societies and peoples. Yet,
amid the apparent gloom, we see a flicker of hope. The
process of peace and stability in Sierra Leone is
gaining momentum, as the process of reconciliation,
through a programme of disarmament, demobilization
and rehabilitation, funded by the United Nations, has
continued to generate trust and confidence. We are
equally encouraged by recent developments in
Burundi, where a newly installed interim transitional
Government is grappling with the challenges of
national reconciliation and integration. These efforts
attest to the determination of leaders in our continent to
make a success of initiatives for peace. Nigeria is
proud to be associated with these efforts. Our
experience in Liberia and Sierra Leone has reinforced
our conviction that, working in close partnership with
regional and subregional organizations, the United
Nations can facilitate the return to peace and security
in conflict areas. Let us provide these organizations
with the necessary financial and logistic support.
Apart from the commitment to durable peace and
security, there must be a re-intensification of our
resolve to eliminate weapons of war, both conventional
and non-conventional. Of the utmost concern to us in
Africa is the havoc caused by the proliferation of small
arms and light weapons. The Programme of Action
adopted at the recently concluded United Nations
Conference on Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects provides us with a clear road map for
effective cooperation. Its effective implementation will
attest to our commitment to strengthen the forces of
democracy and the rule of law in the world.
We recognize the inexorable march of
globalization and fully embrace the challenges of
expanding opportunities in trade, finance, information
18

and communications technology which it offers. But
the benefits should not be limited to only a small
section of the international community. Globalization
and the twin phenomena of liberalization and
deregulation should work for all countries. The health
and stability of the global economic system demand
nothing less. For us in Africa, access to such benefits
should be reflected in concrete actions and measures
that will ensure our full integration into a new and fair
global economic system.
Nigeria’s call for a fundamental change in current
debt strategies towards developing countries is derived
from a keen appreciation of the impact external debt
has on the economic growth and political stability of
developing countries. The fact that, in spite of welcome
initiatives on debt relief and debt management, many
of our countries have neither grown out of debt nor
been able significantly to service their debts in a
sustainable manner, warrants a bolder and more
imaginative approach, such as outright debt
cancellation.
International efforts to resolve the debt problem
should be bolstered by collective action to discourage
the illegal transfer of funds from developing countries
and the repatriation of such funds to the countries of
origin. African leaders have established a clear linkage
between our huge debt burden, the activities of foreign
collaborators and the transfer of funds by former
leaders and other individuals from our continent. We
are concerned about the corrosive impact of corruption
on our fledgling democracies and our social, economic
and political development. Let us redouble our efforts
to support an international instrument on the illegal
transfer of funds abroad.
At the thirty-seventh regular session of the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), which took
place in Lusaka in July, the leaders of the continent
endorsed the New African Initiative, now called the
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
The inaugural meeting of the Implementation
Committee of Heads of State and Government on
NEPAD took place in Abuja on 23 October 2001.
Based on a common vision and shared conviction about
the need to urgently eradicate poverty and place
African countries on the path to sustainable growth and
development, NEPAD has, among its key themes, the
promotion of peace, democracy, human rights, social
and economic management, regional cooperation and
economic integration. We appreciate the support
already offered, and we sincerely believe that this
provides the best platform for a viable partnership with
our development partners.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to pose
serious challenges to development in our world. We
appreciate the contribution of the international
community in combating that scourge, as reflected in
the outcome of the special session on HIV/AIDS.
Africa’s resolve to meet the pandemic head-on has
struck a responsive chord, and we are grateful to the
United Nations Secretary-General for his clear
advocacy. I believe that we have reason to be
encouraged by the progress made in establishing
structures and a multilateral framework for greater
cooperation and support in confronting the problem.
Every effort should be made to ensure that the Global
AIDS and Health Fund becomes operational by January
2002. Meanwhile, we should maintain the momentum
so that in the shortest possible time we bring succour to
those who live with AIDS or suffer from tuberculosis
or other related infectious diseases. This is the
expectation of the African leaders who met in Abuja in
April this year to agree on a coordinated strategy on
this health and development crisis. Our attention
should also be focused on the campaign against
malaria, as a follow-up to an earlier summit, which
also took place in Abuja.
The rescheduling of the United Nations special
session on the rights of the child to May 2002 should
provide us with an opportunity to ponder the
challenges which the world’s children face today. For
us in Nigeria, the session will coincide with the
passage of far-reaching legislation, now before the
National Assembly, to protect our children, and go
beyond the provisions of the OAU African Charter on
the Rights and Welfare of the Child, which we have
recently ratified, to revolutionize public awareness and
the defence of their rights. Indeed, in mid-2002,
Nigeria proposes to host an international conference
that will, inter alia, address the issue of trafficking in
children in our region. We look forward to the
participation of Member States.
I cannot conclude without reference to the
question of the reform of the United Nations system.
Nigeria maintains that, in order for the United Nations
to meet the complex challenges of our new century,
long-overdue reforms of the Organization must be
speedily undertaken. The reform of the Security
Council, in particular, constitutes one of the major
19

challenges facing the United Nations today. Let us
work assiduously to complete the reform process and
thereby make the enlarged and expanded Council truly
representative of the United Nations membership.
May I express our profound gratitude to
Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his leadership of our
Organization in the past year. Nigeria rejoices with him
over his well-deserved re-election, a reward for faithful
stewardship and a signal of the trust and confidence of
the United Nations membership in his shared vision for
the future. No less significant is the award to him and
to our Organization of the Nobel Peace Prize for 2001.
We wish him well and heartily congratulate the United
Nations on that achievement.




"
56,2001,MAR,"﻿At
the outset, I wish to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo,
on behalf of the Kingdom of Morocco, on his election
to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session and to offer him our full support as he carries
out his important task. I also take this opportunity to
thank and congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri, on the effective and decisive manner in which
he conducted the work of the General Assembly at its
fifty-fifth session.
I also pay tribute to our Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, for all his efforts in serving the
Organization and the international community as a
whole and I congratulate him sincerely on his re-
election to his post and on receiving the Nobel Peace
Prize for 2001.
We have all been struck and shaken by the
heinous terrorist acts that took place on 11 September
in the United States. They were an attack upon
thousands of innocent lives and a clear violation of all
the religious, humanitarian and cultural values that we
hold dear. Whatever our attitude towards and
evaluation of those events may be, international
relations have taken a different turn and a fateful
outlook since that day. Those events were epic in their
resonance and the extent of their repercussions is not
yet clear. One thing is clear, however: we will have to
face new challenges and new constraints. Morocco
reaffirms its full condemnation of these actions and
calls on all countries to mobilize their efforts to
eradicate terrorism at its very roots. Terrorism
represents a threat not merely to international peace
and security, but to the human race as a whole.
We believe that the United Nations is the most
appropriate institution for investigating the deepest
causes of terrorism, not least because of the resolutions
of the Security Council and the General Assembly
establishing a unified and comprehensive set of
guidelines on this wide-ranging subject. That is why
we call on all competent bodies to do everything
possible to fulfil their responsibilities for combating or
preventing terrorism. Morocco is a multi-ethnic State
founded on tolerance, equality and respect for
international law. It will contribute fully to the fight
against the scourge of terrorism and its dangers.
It is absolutely clear that the question of the
Middle East is one of the most serious regional
conflicts that the world has experienced in the past 50
years. Recently, we have seen a dangerous escalation in
the conflict that has taken hundreds of lives, including
those of many women and children, and undermined
the infrastructure and services of the occupied
territories of Palestine. Morocco has therefore
condemned the attacks and called for a lifting of the
siege of Palestinian towns and villages, where homes,
schools and fields have been bulldozed. The forced
colonization of Palestinian areas occupied since 1967
must come to an end. We must break the vicious cycle
of violence and reprisals, and return to the negotiating
table on the basis of the conclusions of the Mitchell
report and signed agreements between Israel and the
Palestinians.
Morocco feels that peace between the Arabs and
Israelis will have to entail an Israeli withdrawal from
all the land occupied since 1967 in Palestine and the
Syrian Golan Heights and that part of the territory of
Lebanon that remains under Israeli occupation. This
must take place on the basis of full compliance with
international law, in particular Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the
decisions of the Madrid Conference, which called for
an exchange of land for peace. In this context, we
heard with satisfaction the statement made by President
Bush concerning the establishment of a Palestinian
State and the expression of the will of the United States
Administration to resume its active role in reviving the
peace process in order to achieve a just, lasting,
20

comprehensive and genuine peace for all the peoples
and States of the region.
Morocco takes this opportunity to reiterate its
concern over the suffering of the brotherly people of
Iraq and the deterioration of the humanitarian situation
in that country. These are direct results of the economic
sanctions that have been imposed on that nation for the
past 10 years and more. Morocco hopes that the talks
under way between the United Nations and the
Government of Iraq will help towards the lifting of the
sanctions and put an end to the despair, pain and
suffering of the Iraqi people.
Morocco welcomes all the efforts to be made by
the United Nations and the Iraqi Government in the
dialogue, which will be held in confidence and
frankness, to find a just solution to the problem of
detainees and people missing since the Gulf War.
Morocco supports both the independence and
sovereignty of Kuwait and the sovereignty and
territorial integrity of Iraq itself.
The settlement of armed conflicts is also of
crucial importance to Africa, which, unfortunately, is
still being plagued by bloody but entirely contrived
confrontations. What is happening in Africa requires
our Organization to adopt a new and pragmatic
approach enabling us to maintain and strengthen peace
in Africa on the basis of respect for ceasefires and the
encouragement of dialogue between the parties, and
confidence-building. We need to provide for preventive
action, as stated by the Secretary-General at the
opening of this session of the General Assembly. We
need early warning mechanisms for areas of tension. If
we have such mechanisms, then we will be able to deal
with the deep causes of conflict, like injustice, poverty,
epidemics and refugees.
Morocco, which is eager to support peace and
security in Africa, welcomes all efforts undertaken in
this area by the United Nations and international and
regional organizations. Morocco, as always, has
responded this year to the United Nations request for
troops from the Moroccan Royal Armed Forces to
participate in the international peacekeeping operations
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The Kingdom of Morocco is determined to
expedite the process of constructing the Arab Mahgreb
Union as a strong and balanced regional organization
that will lead to permanent stability in the region and
strengthen economic, social and cultural institutions. It
would also enter into fruitful partnership with other
regional organizations, including the European Union.
Morocco remains convinced that such a Union is
inevitable and most useful.
The efforts to establish a Mahgreb organization,
however, depend upon finding an enduring, just and
final solution to the problem of the Sahara. The conflict
there is a stumbling block preventing the fulfilment of
the hopes of the peoples of the Mahgreb for good
relations, complementarity, stability, prosperity and
peace. It is these hopes that have guided us since
independence, especially since the historic conference
in Tangiers in 1958. Although some claim otherwise,
the settlement plan did not come to a halt because of
the huge number of challenges following the
identification process, but because of the huge
difficulties mentioned by the Secretary-General himself
in his last three reports to the Security Council.
Finally  and again contrary to the claims of
some  the Security Council, in resolution 1359
(2001), requested the four parties concerned in the
Sahara conflict to begin negotiations on the basis of the
framework agreement tabled by the Secretary-General
in the Security Council and known as the Baker plan.
In fact, the initiative of the Secretary-General,
enshrined in the draft framework agreement, is aimed
at a negotiated settlement of the conflict. As the
Secretary-General himself put it, this is a last chance to
reach a speedy and final settlement in the Sahara
conflict. Morocco accepted the draft framework
agreement as a basis for negotiation, and is ready to
continue cooperating with the Security Council, the
Secretary-General and his personal representative,
Mr. James Baker, in order to achieve a just, peaceful
and final settlement of the Sahara issue.
In keeping with international law and the Charter,
Morocco invites all other parties to provide the same
positive response to the appeal contained in Security
Council resolution 1359 (2001) to start negotiations in
order to achieve a political solution of this totally
contrived conflict.
The fact that Spain continues to occupy two
Moroccan cities, Ceuta and Melilla, and the islands off
the coast of Morocco that are near them, is a pure
anachronism and totally out of line with the values and
principles upheld by the international community.
Morocco, which would like to see a European-
Mediterranean community and dialogue between the
21

two shores of the Mediterranean, considers that a good
relationship based on cooperation and good
neighbourliness with Spain is one of our basic strategic
goals. However, if we are to achieve that goal, Spain
will have to show an understanding of and good faith
towards Morocco's rightful claims on Ceuta and
Melilla and the islands off the coast of Morocco, so
that Moroccan sovereignty over this territory can be
exercised, with full guarantees for the economic, social
and cultural rights of the Spanish residents of these two
cities. There have been similar precedents, in places
like Hong Kong and Macao. Thus, we can refer to such
previous settlements that will be in the interests of both
Morocco and Spain.
Changes in the world economy make it essential
for Mediterranean countries to give their economic
relationships a strong impetus based on new concepts
and approaches. That is why Morocco has tabled very
ambitious projects with some of the other countries in
the eastern and southern Mediterranean regions.
There is the initiative of His Majesty King
Mohammed VI, known as the Agadir declaration of
8 May 2001, which provides for the enlargement of the
free-trade zone that now exists on the basis of
agreements between Morocco, Egypt, Jordan and
Tunisia. The ideas for this free-trade area to be
enlarged with the involvement of other Arab
Mediterranean States form a solid basis for the States
on the south and east coasts of the Mediterranean to
integrate in a framework of partnership and
cooperation, as under the Barcelona Declaration,
involving countries on the north shore of the
Mediterranean and the European Union in general.
International peace and security do not depend
only on responses to political challenges. They also
depend on social and economic problems. We
specifically cite problems of the environment and lack
of natural resources, where there are so many
challenges facing our planet, not least of which is
access to water and drinking water at a reasonable
price. My country had the honour of contributing to
this cause at the seventh Conference of the Parties to
the Climate Change Convention, which took place in
Marrakech between 29 October and 9 November 2001.
This Conference resulted in positive steps on the way
towards an international conference on sustainable
development to be held in Johannesburg next year.
With regard to the social issues that are of
concern to international organizations, the Kingdom of
Morocco considers that the United Nations should
increase its efforts to benefit children, because they are
the future of the human race. The Kingdom of
Morocco, upon the recommendation and leadership of
its sovereign, His Majesty Mohammed VI and their
Royal Highnesses Prince Moulay Rachid and Princess
Lalla Meriem, has spared no effort at the regional and
international levels to ensure the success of the Global
Movement for Children. Morocco has in this regard
organized three important conferences on children this
year aimed at mobilizing all possible resources
regional, Arab and African  in order to make sure
that children enjoy their rights to health, education and
justice. Based on such convictions, Morocco is
determined to effectively contribute to the success of
the special session on children to be held next year.
For the second time in 10 years, our Organization
has received the Nobel Peace Prize, which is both an
honour and a burden. An honour for its success in
preventing wars and in settling disputes peacefully; and
a burden because it leads to rethinking the role of the
Organization so it can become an effective tool in
responding to the new challenges and so it can fulfil its
goals of building a world in which peace and security
prevail and in which all peoples of the world can
harvest the fruits of technological and scientific
advances. Let us therefore rise to the level of such
challenges and engage in a true partnership and solid
visionary outlook so we can achieve these noble
objectives.







"
56,2001,MYS,"﻿My delegation would like
to congratulate the distinguished Foreign Minister of
the Republic of Korea on his election as President of
the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I have
no doubt that under his able and wise stewardship he
will be able to guide the proceedings of this Assembly
to a successful conclusion. Our congratulations also go
to the other members of the Bureau, including your
good self, Sir.
I should also like to join other speakers in
expressing my delegation’s gratitude to Mr. Harri
Holkeri for the excellent manner in which he conducted
and guided the work of the fifty-fifth session of the
General Assembly.
I should also like to congratulate Mr. Kofi Annan
on his re-election as Secretary-General for another
five-year term. We are confident that he will continue
to serve the Organization with the same single-minded
commitment he has shown in the past. We also
congratulate him and the United Nations on being
awarded the centennial Nobel Peace Prize. That is due
recognition of the many contributions that he and the
Organization have made in the service of the
international community.
We are gratified that we are finally able to
convene the general debate after the uncertainties that
we have had to face in the wake of the horrific events
of 11 September 2001. Malaysia strongly condemned
the terrorist attacks and shared the anguish of the
American people over the senseless deaths of so many
thousands of innocent people. We once again express
our profound condolences to the United States and
other countries that lost their nationals in that tragedy.
We ourselves lost a number of our own and understand
the pain of the bereaved. As an Islamic country, we are
very much concerned that a group of misguided people,
identified as Muslims, carried out such terrible acts in
the name of our sacred religion. They have tarnished
the name of Islam, which stands for peace, and have
tried to equate their creed of terror with that of our
faith, thereby doing a great disservice to our great
religion and our community. Fortunately, their ploy has
not worked. In this regard we are grateful to President
George W. Bush and other world leaders for
categorically rejecting the stereotyping and association
of Islam and Muslims with terrorism. In this regard,
every effort should be made to ensure that people of
the Islamic faith are not discriminated against simply
because of their faith, ethnic background or the country
they come from.
On an unrelated matter, my delegation extends its
sincere condolences to the delegations of the United
States and the Dominican Republic, and those of other
Member States, for the loss of their nationals in the
tragic air crash that occurred yesterday on Long Island.
Malaysia is ready to contribute to the global
effort to combat the scourge of terrorism. In dealing
with the issue, there is a need for the international
community, through the United Nations, to work out a
sound strategy incorporating all aspects of the problem.
While we understand the natural urge for retribution
against the people who are believed to be behind the
heinous attacks and their supporters, we do not think
military actions are the best and most effective
solution, nor politically a wise one. We are concerned
that military actions may raise more problems than
they solve. A sound strategy should include, aside from
the military option, political/diplomatic efforts and
legal, economic and other measures. It should involve a
long and sustained campaign in an effort to get at and
destroy, once and for all, each and every root of the
terrorist organization or organizations behind these
attacks.
A concerted and coordinated effort on the part of
the international community is the most appropriate
and effective approach. For this purpose there is a need
for the convening of an international conference at the
highest level to consider the issue of terrorism in all its
aspects and manifestations, including the necessity of
agreeing on the definition of what constitutes
terrorism. That is important so that pure terrorism,
which cannot be excused under any pretext, can be
differentiated from the legitimate struggles of peoples
under colonial or alien domination and foreign
occupation for self-determination and national
liberation, as recognized by the relevant resolutions of
the United Nations and other international declarations.
Agreement on the definition of terrorism is vitally
important so as to clear up any ambiguities and
uncertainties that may hamper international
cooperation. Such a conference should also address the
important issue of the root causes of, or factors that
spawn, terrorism. Those factors may be political,
economic or social, but they must be addressed in all
26

seriousness and objectivity so that appropriate
strategies and practical and effective measures can be
formulated to deal with them.
As for Afghanistan, there should be an immediate
cessation of the current bombings in order to spare the
hapless people of Afghanistan further harm and
suffering. They have suffered too long enough — 20
years too long. They should be allowed to return to
their villages and homes to prepare for the cold winter
season and Ramadan, which are fast approaching. The
cessation of the bombings would also allow for the
return of international relief workers so that they can
resume their commendable humanitarian work.
Enormous amounts of international assistance are
required. We commend those countries that have
responded generously and appeal to those that have not
done so. We ourselves have set up an Afghanistan
Relief Fund with a very positive response from both
the Government and the public. On the political/
diplomatic front, the United Nations should make every
effort to bring peace to Afghanistan through a political
settlement. We hope that the debate that is now going
on in the Security Council on this issue will yield
constructive results.
The situation in Palestine and the Middle East
continues to be a matter of serious concern to the
international community. The issue must be urgently
addressed, not only for its own sake but also to prevent
it from being exploited by certain groups of people for
their own ends. It is imperative, if enduring peace is to
be achieved in the Middle East, for the peace process
to be revived on an urgent basis. We believe that the
Mitchell report offers a good basis for bringing the
situation back to the negotiating table. We commend
the Palestinian Authority for unambiguously accepting
the report. However, we regret that the Israeli side,
while indicating general “acceptance”, rejected major
parts of the report, including the call for the complete
cessation of settlement activity, one of the main causes
of the current cycle of violence in the occupied
Palestinian territory.
The continued military offensive against the
Palestinians raises questions about the sincerity of the
Israeli leadership to work for peace. The Israeli
authorities have tried to cow the Palestinian people by
an overwhelming use of force, using an assortment of
its formidable arsenals. That excessive use of force has
resulted in more than 800 Palestinians being killed and
more than 20,000 being wounded. Regrettably, the calls
of the international community have fallen on deaf ears
as the Israeli forces continue their offensive against the
Palestinians on the pretext of ending the campaign
against terrorism. The aggressive actions by the
occupying Power must cease if peace is to be given a
chance to grow.
There is no military solution to the problem.
Indeed, the provocative measures taken by Israel will
only aggravate the situation. We therefore strongly urge
the Israeli Government to desist from pursuing a
military solution. A just, comprehensive and lasting
solution is possible only through a negotiated political
settlement — a process that the international
community and this body must actively pursue. This
must include the complete withdrawal of Israel from all
Arab and Palestinian land occupied since 1967,
including the city of Al-Quds al-Sharif and the
occupied Syrian Golan. We also reaffirm our support
for the establishment of an independent State of
Palestine, with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital. Only
the implementation of all international resolutions on
the Palestinian issue can guarantee lasting peace
between Israel and Palestine. We once again call on
Israel to comply with Security Council resolutions 242
(1967) and 338 (1973) and all other relevant
resolutions of the Security Council and the General
Assembly. Equally, we look forward to the return of the
Syrian Golan without further delay. We hope to see a
future environment that will bring development and
opportunities in a peaceful and stable Middle East.
Malaysia has consistently voiced its opposition to
the use of sanctions as an instrument of collective
punishment. No one can deny its debilitating effects on
the general populace of the affected countries. We
therefore strongly urge the international community, in
particular the Security Council, to seriously review the
impact of sanctions on Member States, particularly
those imposed on Iraq and Libya, which in our view
should be lifted as soon as possible as they have
already served their purpose.
The danger of a nuclear holocaust remains real
and serious. We should strive for the ultimate objective
of a world free of weapons of mass destruction —
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. We should
make every effort to strengthen all existing nuclear-
related disarmament, arms control and reduction
measures. The multilateral search for genuine measures
for disarmament and non-proliferation, particularly in
27

the nuclear area, must remain the highest priority on
the global disarmament agenda.
After more than 20 years of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, the United Nations finally recognized its
catastrophic impact on populations around the world
and convened a special session for an expanded
response to the pandemic. It is now up to the
international community to take resolute and concerted
action to combat this scourge and to acknowledge that
the world’s most affected populations are also among
the poorest and lack the much-needed resources to act
alone. With about 95 per cent of all HIV-infected
people living in developing countries, it is essential
that every assistance be given to them to combat the
scourge. We hope that a review conference will be
convened a few years from now to assess how far we
have come in our fight against this devastating disease.
Racism constitutes one of the most heinous forms
of human rights violations, not only in itself, but as it
also gives rise to other egregious forms of systematic
human rights violations such as colonialism, slavery
and genocide. These have in turn resulted in poverty,
underdevelopment, marginalization and social
exclusion for far too many. We are therefore heartened
that the outcome of the World Conference against
Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and
Related Intolerance, held in Durban recently, contained
elements that will further our efforts to eradicate
racism, the most prominent of which is the recognition
by the international community that slavery and the
slave trade are crimes against humanity. Unfortunately,
we view the outcome documents as inadequate as they
do not sufficiently address the plight of the Palestinian
people, who are victims of policies based on
discrimination and exclusion.
We look forward to the upcoming special session
on children as an affirmation of the centrality of
children to our common future and a positive proof of
our commitment to ensuring the survival, protection
and development of all children around the world.
While many of the goals set by the World Summit for
Children have been achieved, an estimated 600 million
children are still struggling to survive, eat and learn on
less than $1 a day. Let us also not overlook the plight
of children affected by sanctions, such as the hapless
children of Iraq, many of whom do not survive beyond
the age of five.
Many of us in the developing world had
welcomed, indeed embraced, globalization almost
unquestioningly as if it were a panacea for all our
problems, only to be disillusioned over time when we
found that rather than a holistic process benefiting all
of humanity, it was being pursued more often than not
as a strategy for the benefit of a few. While the world is
richer today, millions of people are still living in
absolute poverty, suffering from want, sickness and
malnutrition. Globalization is a complex process, with
as many opportunities as challenges. While the impact
of globalization is profound and pervasive, not all of it
is necessarily positive. As we embrace it there is a need
to ensure that we minimize its negative impact,
particularly on the developing countries.
If globalization in its present form is pursued,
characterized, inter alia, by weakened national
sovereignty and growing ownership and control of new
technologies by powerful nations, it will not be the
universal remedy it was thought to be. The Asian
financial crisis demonstrated forcefully the downside
of globalization. It demonstrated the inherent
instability of the world economic system, in which
trade and economic liberalization have not necessarily
led to faster growth and development for the
developing countries. What is clear is that growth and
development require an enabling international
environment and international support that can promote
growth with equity for the benefit of all.
To enable developing countries to participate in
and benefit equally from globalization, adequate
funding for development, among other things, is
required. It is therefore most disheartening to see the
steady decline over the years in the volume of official
development assistance (ODA) to developing
countries. The continued need for an inflow of ODA
and new and additional financial resources will become
even more critical with the advancement of
globalization and the shift to the new knowledge-based
economy. Unless the ODA situation improves, the
developing countries will be further marginalized in a
rapidly globalizing world economy, characterized by
rapid change, high technology and stiff competition.
The developing countries, particularly the least
developed, must therefore continue to be assisted in a
more sustained fashion in order to bring about a more
equitable distribution of growth and economic
prosperity. The developing countries, for their part,
28

must put their house in order by adopting sound
economic policies.
The issue of financing for development is
particularly relevant and vitally important in solving
the problems of development faced by many countries.
The International Conference on Financing for
Development, in Mexico early next year, will provide
the opportunity for us to achieve international
consensus on issues pertaining to financing for
development in all its aspects. We thank the
Government of Mexico for its willingness to host that
important Conference and look forward to participating
constructively in Monterrey. We hope that the
Conference will be able to address the core problems
relating to financing for development, including other
systemic issues such as the reform of the international
financial architecture, on which, in spite of a general
recognition of the need for reform, there has been no
progress thus far.
As an innovative source of financing for
development, the Conference in Monterrey could also
consider, inter alia, the possibility of establishing an
appropriate system of international taxation for the
purpose of infrastructure-building in the least
developed countries. This international tax, which was
suggested by my Prime Minister, Mr. Mahathir
Mohamad, will be contributed by those countries that
have benefited from international trade, over and above
the economic aid given by them to the developing
countries. Malaysia is quite prepared to contribute to
such an infrastructure tax.
The challenge facing developing countries in
integrating themselves into the international trading
system lies in their ability to fully and actively
participate in the multilateral trading system.
Regrettably, many developing countries have not
benefited from global trade liberalization because of
their inability to have access to the markets of
developed countries. Although globalization carries
with it the notion of free trade, many developed
countries maintain protectionist regimes and subsidies
as basic instruments of economic policy, even as they
insist on opening up the markets of the developing
countries in the name of globalization. It is also
disappointing to the developing countries that,
structurally, little has been done in the area of trade to
improve their ability and capability to compete in the
global market. There is, therefore, an urgent need to
facilitate the integration of the developing countries
into the global trading system through, inter alia, the
special differential measures provided for under the
Uruguay Round. A new round, should it be launched,
should ensure that negotiations effectively address the
particular concerns and problems of developing
countries. However, any negotiations will have to
formally recognize that the least developed
countries — indeed, for that matter, many of the
developing countries — have neither the financial nor
human resources to meet their existing obligations, let
alone the outcome of future negotiations. In this regard
we believe that the role of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), as
one of the few mechanisms concerned with the
development of the developing countries, is of the
utmost importance. We hope that UNCTAD will
continue to play a leading role in helping developing
countries, particularly in efforts to reach the
Millennium Declaration’s development target of
halving poverty by the year 2015.
With regard to the situation in Africa, my
delegation welcomes the United Nations Millennium
Declaration adopted last year, which, among other
things, pledged to pay special attention to meeting the
special needs of Africa. The international community
must continue to assist African countries in their
development needs. We should continue to assist our
African brothers in their struggle for lasting peace,
poverty eradication and sustainable development.
Malaysia, for its part, has been able to make a modest
contribution through the Malaysian Technical
Cooperation Programme, launched in 1981. To date,
many participants from African countries have taken
part in various short-term and medium-term courses in
the public, administration and technical fields in
Malaysia. We have also developed economic relations
with some African countries based on the concept of
smart partnership, involving Governments and the
private sector, with the goal of promoting sound and
sustainable economic activities to ensure a win-win
relationship for all. Within our limited resources,
Malaysia looks forward to further consolidating our
cooperation and solidarity with Africa in the spirit of
South-South cooperation.
Malaysia welcomes the Secretary-General’s
pledge to move the United Nations from a culture of
reaction to a culture of prevention. This culture should
be the cornerstone of the Organization’s collective
security system for this century. It is a far better and
29

more cost-effective approach, in financial as well as in
human terms, than mounting any operation or activity
after a conflict has erupted. We are pleased to note that
the Secretary-General continues to pursue that culture
with the relevant regional organizations in order to
further enhance a comprehensive approach by drawing
on regional preventive strategies. We urge the
Secretary-General to continue to consult the relevant
regional or subregional groups in this regard.
In conclusion, I should like to raise an issue that
was mentioned by my Prime Minister, Mr. Mahathir
Mohamad, when he addressed the fifty-fourth session
of the General Assembly. The problem relates to
immunities granted to nationals of Member States by
virtue of the 1946 Convention on the Privileges and
Immunities of the United Nations and the 1947
Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of
Specialized Agencies once they are appointed as
officials of the United Nations, such as a rapporteur.
While Malaysia acknowledges the need for immunities
to be granted to ensure that these officials are able to
carry out their mandate effectively, it seems that they
are able to hide behind this cloak of immunity for
every criticism made of their own Government,
including words that fall outside their mandate. Surely
even they should be treated as ordinary citizens,
governed by the laws of the land, when they are not
officially “on mission”. My delegation calls for clear
guidelines to govern the conduct of United Nations
officials, especially when residing in their own
countries, so that their actions fall strictly within their
mandates and that they will enjoy immunities there
only at such times as they are officially performing
their functions as United Nations officials, and not all
year round. Surely, also, there should be a better basis
for the appointment of United Nations officials — a
nominee should be one who is known for his or her
neutral or unbiased views, and not who, in the words of
my Prime Minister “is well known for his virulent
attacks” — to report on any given matter. Surely on
this issue the United Nations would be among the first
to agree that while there is a need to protect and ensure
the freedom and impartiality of its officials, it must
also, at the same time, protect the rights and interests
of its Member States.






"
56,2001,CUB,"﻿Before delivering my statement, I would like to express
our condolences to the United States, the Dominican
Republic and other countries represented here that have
lost citizens among the many passengers and crew
members who perished in yesterday’s tragic crash of
American Airlines flight 587, and I hereby extend these
condolences to their families.
The war in Afghanistan must be stopped. The
Government of the United States must acknowledge
that it has made a mistake, and must halt its ineffective,
unjustifiable bombing campaign against the Afghan
people.
Judging by its results, it would seem that this war
has targeted children, the civilian population and the
hospitals and facilities of the International Committee
of the Red Cross. As to its methods, no honest voice
would be raised in this Hall to defend the endless
slaughter, with the most sophisticated weaponry, of a
dispossessed, starving, helpless people. As to its
doubtful purposes, this war will never be justified from
the point of view of ethics and international law. Those
responsible for it will one day be judged by history.
Cuba has opposed this war from the very
beginning as an absurd, inefficient method to eradicate
terrorism, and reiterates that it can only bring more
hatred and ever-increasing dangers of new actions of
this kind. No one has the right to continue murdering
children, aggravating the humanitarian crisis and
visiting impoverishment and death on millions of
refugees.
If the United States obtained a military victory by
eliminating all regular and irregular Afghan
resistance — something that is not at all easy in
practice and extremely costly on a moral level, for it
would represent a real genocide without attaining the
objective that we must pursue — the world would be
farther away than ever from achieving peace, security
and the eradication of terrorism.
Cuba’s discourse is not founded on ill feelings
against the country that has been our most pitiless
adversary for over 40 years. It is inspired by a sincere,
constructive spirit and a sense of respect for and
sympathy towards the people of the United States,
which suffered an unjustifiable and atrocious terrorist
attack. It is also based on the aspiration for peace and
justice for all the peoples of the world.
What Cuba expresses in this Hall, with full
openness, may not be to the liking of those who run the
United States today, but it will be understood one day
by the American people, whose generosity and sense of
justice were proved to the Cuban people when it had
the support of 80 percent of the public opinion in this
country in our struggle to prevent a kidnapped Cuban
child from being torn away from his family and
subjected to ludicrous political manipulations and cruel
psychological tortures.
What Cuba is saying from this rostrum, as we
well know, is what many people have been saying in
the corridors of this building. What international
coalition are we talking about? What is its legitimacy
based on if it has started by scandalously disregarding
the General Assembly? The United States has not
fostered international cooperation. It has rather
imposed its war on a unilateral basis and has stated in
an unprecedented way that whoever does not second
them is for terrorism. How long will the precarious
support obtained last, since it is not based on
harmonized objectives and voluntary agreement, but on
the imposition of will through threats and pressures?
You can be the strongest, but not necessarily
right. You can inspire dread, but not sympathy and
respect. Only from genuine international
cooperation — in which all countries, big and small,
participate with a full understanding of everyone’s
positions, with broadmindedness and tolerance in the
21

methods used, within the framework of the United
Nations and the strict respect for the principles
enshrined in its Charter — can a truly effective and
lasting alliance emerge to fight terrorism.
The world was surprised to learn of the official
announcement of the United States to the Security
Council that it reserved the right to decide on an attack
against other countries in the future. What is left of the
Charter after this? Can this unprecedented threat by
any chance be interpreted as an exercise of the right to
legitimate defence, enshrined in the Charter as the right
of a State to deal with acts of aggression until the
Council adopts the necessary measures, and not as a
vulgar excuse to unleash attacks against other
countries? Is this announcement, or is it not, the
proclamation of the right of a super-Power to trample
upon the still fragile and incomplete standards that
protect the sovereignty, security and rights of peoples?
Cuba calmly and firmly rejects that language. We
have not done so out of concern for our own security,
because there is no power in the world that can subdue
our spirit of independence, freedom and social justice
and the courage to defend it at any cost. We did so,
because we believe that it is still possible to halt the
escalation of a useless, brutal war that threatens to
further plunge into hopelessness, insecurity and death
the poor peoples of the planet, who are by no means
responsible for any act of terrorism, but will be — and
already are — the main victims of this senselessness.
Only under the leadership of the United Nations
will we be able to defeat terrorism. Cooperation, and
not war, is the way. The coordination of actions, and
not the imposition of will, is the method. Our objective
must be to obliterate terrorism by removing its root
causes — and not the hegemonic assertion of the
strength of a super-Power, thus turning us into
accomplices to its arrogance and arbitrariness.
Therefore, Cuba — which has already responded
to the Secretary-General’s appeal by deciding to
immediately ratify all of the international legal
instruments on terrorism — resolutely supports the
adoption of a general convention on international
terrorism. Of course, this will be possible only in the
context of the General Assembly, which — though now
completely ignored by those who are promoting the
new campaign — has, over the past 10 years, despite
the silence and apathy of the Security Council, adopted
the principal resolutions and declarations calling for an
outright combat against terrorism.
This will allow us finally to define terrorism with
accuracy. We have to prevent attempts from being
made by a handful of actors with vested interests to try
to label as such the right of nations to fight for their
self-determination or against foreign aggression. It
must be clearly established that the support, abetting,
financing or concealment of terrorist actions by a State
is also an act of terrorism.
Cuba, which is working on its own anti-terrorism
law, which should be in effect shortly, unreservedly
endorses the proposal to convene an international
conference on terrorism under the auspices of the
United Nations. This has been a longtime aspiration of
the Non-Aligned Movement and should enable us, as a
result of open discussions, collective action and
respectful and non-discriminatory agreement — and
not of threats, terror or force — to find a way to fully
eliminate terrorism and its causes. Here I am speaking
of terrorism committed not only against the United
States but against any other country — even if
emanating from the territory of the United States, or
tolerated by, or with the complicity of, its authorities,
as has been Cuba’s painful experience for over four
decades.
Only four days ago, the Pakistani media
attributed to a character who is well known and very
familiar to the United States a statement supposedly
made from Afghan territory saying that he has
chemical and nuclear weapons and is threatening to use
them against the United States if it uses similar
weapons against Afghanistan.
Everybody knows that Afghanistan does not have
the slightest ability to produce or launch nuclear or
chemical weapons. Only a terrorist organization or
leader could come up with the idea of executing an
action of this kind using nuclear or chemical weapons.
Of course, theoretically this could be possible, as a
consequence of the irresponsible behaviour of the
major nuclear Powers and as a result of the arms trade,
corruption and illegal trafficking in all sorts of military
technology. Indeed, several of those Powers have acted
as accomplices to, and taken part in, the traffic in
fissile material and the transfer of nuclear technology,
as suits their interests. However, in reality, given the
conditions of war in Afghanistan, it would be
ridiculous to resort to those threats. To do so would be
22

to show tremendous political and military ignorance. If
one lacked such means, this would be a dangerous
bluff, and if one did have them, it would be absolute
madness to threaten to use them.
If the threats contained in the statement published
by two Pakistani newspapers are true, they deserve the
strongest condemnation, as would the eventual use of
such weapons against Afghanistan. That would be a
stupid reaction, since, under those circumstances, the
only thing that poor, suffering country would have to
gain would be a universal condemnation of the use of
such weapons. Such threats serve only the interests of
the extremist and belligerent forces within the United
States, which favour the use of the most sophisticated
weapons of mass destruction against the Afghan
people. The best weapon for a country that is the
victim of aggression is to earn and keep the sympathy
of the world, and not to allow anyone to violate the
ethical principle that no one has the right to kill
children, not even if others are doing it. There is no
justice in killing innocent people to avenge the death of
other innocents.
Cuba has stated without hesitation that it is
opposed to terrorism and to war. Cuba, which is not
under obligation to anyone, will continue to be
consistent in its positions. Truth and ethical
considerations should prevail above all else.
The way events have unfolded, the increased
level of hatred and the intensification of passions and
potential dangers have shown the absolute truth of the
assertion that war has never been, is not, and never will
be the way to eradicate terrorism.
The most critical socio-economic crisis ever —
the result, halfway through the last decade, of the
resounding and irreversible failure of neo-liberalism
and neo-liberal globalization — has been dramatically
aggravated by this war, which was imposed by one side
but whose consequences we all have to bear.
This war must be stopped, not only because its
consequences for the Afghan civilian population, but
also because of the danger of destabilization in that
region. It must be stopped in order not only to save
thousands of Americans — mostly young — and
thousands of Afghans and other nationals from a
senseless death, and not only to preserve international
peace and stability, but because this conflict makes it
impossible to achieve the objective set by the United
Nations 15 years ago: the right to development for all,
and an equal opportunity to attain it, and because it
renders obsolete the decision made only a year ago to
work together in order to eliminate poverty from the
face of the Earth.
Will we be willing to organize a coalition against
poverty, famine, ignorance, diseases and the scourge of
AIDS that is currently decimating the African
continent; a coalition for sustainable development, for
the preservation of the environment and against the
destruction of the planet?
A coalition has been assembled to avenge the
grievous and unjustifiable death of over 4,000 innocent
people in the United States. Let us come together to
seek justice for this great crime — and let us do so
without war; let us come together to save from death
the hundreds of thousands of poor women who die
during childbirth every year; let us come together to
save from death the 12 million children who die of
preventable diseases before the age of 5 every year in
the third world; let us come together to bring medicine
for AIDS to the 25 million Africans who today are
hopelessly awaiting death; let us come together to
invest in development at least a portion of the billions
already spent on bombing a country in which almost
nothing has been left standing.
Cuba demands that the General Assembly, the
Security Council and the United Nations Organization
as a whole take up once again, as top priorities, the
debate of these problems on which depend the lives of
4.5 billion inhabitants of the third world, whose rights
and hopes have also been buried under the rubble of
the World Trade Center.
Cuba reiterates its categorical condemnation of
the terrorist acts committed last 11 September. Cuba
reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations. Cuba reiterates that it will not
allow its territory ever to be used for terrorist acts
against the people of the United States or of any other
country.
Cuba has the will to do this because it has
suffered terrorist acts for over 40 years; because in
Cuba there are still the relatives of the nearly 3,500
Cubans killed as a result of acts of aggression and
terrorism; and because justice is still demanded by the
more than 2,000 Cubans disabled by acts of aggression
and terrorism. Some of Cuba’s sons and daughters who
fought against terrorism have become the victims of
23

cruel persecutions, merciless treatment and unjust and
slanderous trials.
The people of the United States are victims not
only of terrorism and panic but also of the lack of
truthful information, manipulation and the questionable
curbing of their freedoms. Cuba does not nurture any
hatred towards the American people, whom we do not
hold responsible for our suffering caused by terrorism,
acts of aggression and the unfair economic war that we
have had to withstand during almost an entire lifetime.
We share with the American people the aspiration of
one day having relations based on respect and
cooperation.
If anyone here takes offence at these words
uttered on behalf of a small, generous and courageous
people, I apologize. We speak in a straightforward
manner. Words exist to uphold the truth, not to conceal
it. We rebel against injustice and oppression. We have
the moral resolution. We defend our ideals with our
lives. Our support can be won for any just cause, but
we will not be overcome by force, or allow absurd
slogans or shameful campaigns to be forced upon us.
For many years now, we have proclaimed that for
us Cubans, the historical dilemma is: “Motherland or
Death!” From this comes our confidence and sureness
that we are and will continue to be a worthy, sovereign
and just people.




"
56,2001,SOM,"﻿I seize this opportunity to
extend, on behalf of my Government, my warm
congratulations to Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election
as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. I am confident that, with his experience and
profound dedication, he will successfully guide the
proceedings of this session. I also avail myself of this
opportunity to thank his predecessor, His Excellency
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his excellent stewardship of the
fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. May I also
extend our warmest congratulations to the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, on his
election to a second term and on the award of the
Nobel Peace Prize to him and to the United Nations.
Last year, at the Millennium Summit held here in
New York, the President of Somalia, His Excellency
Mr. Abdikassim Salad Hassan, stood before the
Assembly after Somalia’s absence from the
international arena for about a decade. That was a
moment of historic significance for my country, which
continues to strive to emerge from the abyss of conflict
and to reassert its position as an active Member of the
United Nations. I reiterate our deep gratitude to the
international community for welcoming us back into
the fold.
In the last century, humanity witnessed great and
laudable achievements in the political, scientific,
technological and economic fields. Yet, despite those
accomplishments, we continue to face challenges that
need to be fully addressed. Conflicts are abundant;
poverty is rampant; the economic divide between North
and South continues to widen; and the scourge of
HIV/AIDS remains unabated in the world. Nations
around the globe are reeling from the attendant
consequences and call for urgent and immediate action.
The events of 11 September shocked the
conscience of all decent human beings. We in Somalia
relate to the pain and suffering of the people of the
United States in a very profound and special way. The
Somali people have been subjected to a reign of terror
perpetrated by the warlords. We in Somalia, therefore,
know very well what it means to lose loved ones. Let
me say that those who committed the heinous and
36

atrocious crimes of 11 September have nothing in
common with Islam or with the Islamic faith. Islam
preaches peace within one’s spiritual self and with
one’s neighbours; it preaches tolerance and
compassion.
Allow me to reiterate our heartfelt and sincere
condolences to the families of the victims and to the
people and the Government of the United States of
America on their tragic loss. We continue to share their
grief and pain.
The inhuman terrorist attacks of 11 September
brought to the forefront new challenges to international
peace and security. Our fight against terrorism must be
based on collective action by the international
community and on the principles enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nations. The immediate and
strong response by the Security Council and the
General Assembly, including the adoption of Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), reflects our collective
approach in the fight against terrorism. The
Government of Somalia fully supports Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) and is firmly
committed to translate its provisions into action.
Having said that, I must observe that terrorists
will exploit situations of injustice and imbalance as
well as conflicts in fragile and unstable States. The
international community is under a moral obligation to
come to the aid of those States in the form of post-
conflict peace-building and national reconstruction so
that they do not become vulnerable to the evil forces of
terrorism. In that context, we welcome the statement
made before the Assembly by His Excellency President
George W. Bush, in which he expressed the readiness
of the United States Government to extend assistance
to those countries that lack adequate resources to
combat terrorism. A case in point is the situation in my
country, where there was a political vacuum and no
Government for a decade.
The present Somali Government has been in
office for about a year and a few months. It is a
Government that inherited destroyed institutions and
devastated infrastructure. There are two options before
the international community in dealing with the
situation in Somalia: watch the country slide back into
anarchy and chaos or fully support the struggling
Somali State by providing the necessary resources to
enable it to play a meaningful role in the fight against
terrorism. The Somali Government needs urgent and
adequate assistance from the international community
to be able to comply with resolution 1373 (2001).
Let me at this juncture address the persistent
reports in the media and elsewhere alleging, among
other things, the existence of terrorist camps in
Somalia. First, I should firmly state that the Somali
Government hosts no terrorists nor does it offer bases
or training camps for them. My Government has not
offered and will not offer them any sanctuary. We will
arrest and hand over immediately any known terrorist
who comes to our shores. Secondly, we want to
challenge the veracity of these reports. It is also
important to evaluate objectively the integrity of the
sources of this kind of information.
We are a transparent and open society and are
more than willing to cooperate fully with the United
Nations and with States in this regard. The Somali
Government is ready to invite the media and other
interested parties to visit our country to verify the facts
on the ground. First, we need to see the evidence and
establish the facts first. It is a fundamental principle of
law and natural justice that every person is presumed
innocent until proven guilty. This principle, in our
opinion, is equally applicable to States.
In view of my Government’s serious concern
about these accusations, we propose setting up an
international committee of inquiry under the auspices
of the United Nations Security Council to investigate
these allegations. We also propose that the committee
identify Somalia’s needs in regard to the
implementation of Security Council resolution 1373
(2001). We are fully prepared to cooperate with the
proposed committee, if established, in the fulfilment of
its mandate.
As I mentioned earlier, the Somali Government
has been in office for approximately a year and three
months. During this time, the Government has faced
daunting challenges, primarily in enhancing security in
the capital and others areas. We have succeeded in
demobilizing 25,000 militia personnel. We have
established police stations and deployed 3,000 police
officers in the capital. A judiciary system has been put
in place, courts are functioning, and the Government is
collecting taxes for the first time in a decade.
The Somali Government continues to search for a
lasting peace in Somalia through dialogue with those
37

outside the Arta process. This is in conformity with the
Transitional National Charter and resolutions adopted
by regional, subregional and international
organizations, as well as the presidential statements of
the Security Council on Somalia.
In this regard, let me also refer to the numerous
important initiatives that have been launched to
promote national reconciliation and peace in Somalia.
We extend our profound thanks and appreciation to all
those countries that have contributed to the search for
peace in Somalia.
Let me, in this regard, pay special tribute to
President of the Republic of Djibouti, Mr. Ismail Omar
Guelleh, and Government of Djibouti for their
significant, continuous and positive contribution to the
national reconciliation process. I would also like to
thank Mr. Omer Al-Bashir, President of the Sudan and
the current chairman of the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development (IGAD), for his consistent
support for Somalia and the search for a lasting peace
in my country. The United Nations, the Organization of
African Unity, the League of Arab States and IGAD
continue to play a positive role in this regard, for which
we thank them.
Finally, I want to express, on behalf of my
President, our thanks to President Daniel arap Moi for
his recent efforts in bringing peace to Somalia.
President Moi’s latest initiative was the recent meeting
held in Nairobi last month. The meeting brought
together the President of Somalia and some of the
opposition groups. A joint communiqué was signed,
stipulating the principles upon which future talks could
be based. We expect a broader-based meeting to be
held soon.
In conclusion, let me once again emphasize that
Somalia is a struggling country working toward
achieving peace. This country needs massive assistance
for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of its
infrastructure and institutions. We urgently need the
assistance and goodwill of the international
community. It is my sincere hope that the international
community will respond positively and in a timely
manner to our appeal for urgent and immediate
assistance.








"
56,2001,FSM,"﻿I would like to take this
opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your election.
My Government hails the selection of a leader with
such esteemed qualifications, and we are confident you
will lead the work of this body with the same high
competence and spirit as did your distinguished
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland. We also
share the pride felt by every Member of this body in
the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the United
Nations Organization and to its highly admired
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We take great
satisfaction in his re-election to another term,
especially in this critical period.
Words cannot describe the horror of my people at
the tragic event which unfolded here in New York, in
Washington and other locations in September — and
the one yesterday. On behalf of my people, please
allow me to reiterate our deepest and most sincere
condolences to the Government of the United States
and to the victims and their families from all over the
world. Our resolve to combat international terrorism is
unwavering. My country will stand ready to assist in
any way it can in order to help bring those responsible
for these heinous acts to justice and to ease the
suffering of those affected by their actions.
The recently completed special debate on
terrorism by this body makes it clear that we are all
brothers in this fight, with a shared determination to do
what it takes to eradicate this blight on civilization.
But, despite the great sadness in all our hearts over the
recent and ongoing events, the regular work of this
body cannot be derailed. Part of winning this battle is
to demonstrate the commitment and capacity of this
body to carry on with the great work of the Charter and
on all sides.
Thus, in addition to other actions that are being
taken to confront the current crisis, I call upon all
Member States to ratify and bring into force as soon as
possible the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, which was
adopted by a resolution of the General Assembly on 9
December 1999. I signed this important Convention
yesterday on behalf of the Federated States of
Micronesia, and I anticipate its prompt ratification by
our Congress.
2

I take pleasure in saying that this year marks the
tenth anniversary of the Federated States of
Micronesia’s membership in the United Nations. In
those 10 years, my nation and the world at large have
undergone unprecedented change. With the assistance
of the United Nations system, the Micronesian people
have worked tirelessly to forge our own identity at the
international level.
Fifteen years ago, we entered into a relationship
of Free Association with the United States of America.
It is a relationship largely unprecedented in
international relations. This arrangement was subject to
great scrutiny by the United Nations, which ultimately
approved the end of our status as a United Nations
Trust Territory. It is testimony to the efforts of this
body and the United Nations system that I stand before
you today as the representative of a nation — an equal
in the community of nations.
For hundreds of years, our culture was isolated
from the rest of the world. In the past 10 years, our
membership in the United Nations has opened up new
horizons, new partnerships and a new understanding of
peoples. We also note our appreciation for the special
knowledge we have gained through our interactions
with all of you here in this forum and elsewhere in the
United Nations system.
In the past 10 years, the world, like Micronesia
itself, has changed at a pace heretofore unknown.
Although we may celebrate some victories in conflict
prevention, clearly, other grave challenges remain, and
new threats to international peace and security have
emerged. We are encouraged at seeing the United
Nations assert its leadership in combating these
problems.
The past year has brought an ambitious slate of
new United Nations initiatives to enhance the well-
being of peoples throughout the world. There are far
more noteworthy new initiatives than I have time to
mention here. But please allow me to highlight a few of
them.
While the effects of some grave threats to the
Federated States of Micronesia will gradually manifest
themselves over the coming decades, my nation is
currently grappling with an ongoing and immediate
concern: poverty. I am not speaking of the poverty of
hunger and unchecked disease, but of the all-too-
common developing world condition that has resulted
from the persistent failure of all nations to achieve
equal and equitable sharing of the world’s bounties.
Unfortunately, we are not alone, but this provides little
solace. We applaud the United Nations as it continues
its heroic work to reduce poverty and to bring a better
standard of living to all peoples of the world. We will
continue to work with our colleagues within the Group
of 77 and China to further poverty reduction measures
and to improve the standard of living of all humankind.
The historic isolation of the Federated States of
Micronesia has sheltered us from the scourge of many
communicable diseases, such as AIDS. Our integration
with the world community has brought about change
here as well. In this past year my country experienced
its first domestic case of HIV infection. This is minor
in comparison to the experience of those countries that
have been devastated by the disease, but it is cause for
concern, nonetheless, in a country of little more than
100,000 people. We wholeheartedly support United
Nations initiatives in this regard, such as the recently
concluded General Assembly special session on
HIV/AIDS.
Traditional conflicts remain and, most troubling,
many old animosities have spilled over into open
hostilities. This serves to underscore the importance of
United Nations initiatives, such as this year’s World
Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, which recently
concluded in Durban, South Africa.
After many years of overall peace and
tranquillity, our region of the Pacific islands has
recently seen a few long-standing conflicts erupt into
violence of disturbing proportions. We applaud the
efforts of the United Nations aimed at arriving at
peaceful settlements, and the Federated States of
Micronesia lends its full support to ongoing measures
designed to keep the peace.
In the Pacific, one of the most effective means to
that end has always been the Pacific Islands Forum. In
the 30 years of its existence, the Pacific Islands Forum
has played a pivotal role in maintaining the peace and
security of our region. It has also contributed to notable
progress on a broad slate of economic and social
issues. I was pleased to participate in the recent
meeting of the Forum and can express my country’s
full support for this year’s communiqué, which has
been issued as a document of this session of the
General Assembly.
3

As a nation with one of the youngest populations
in the world, the issues of children and youth are of
utmost concern to us. We therefore commend the
decision to hold the special session of the General
Assembly on children. We understand fully the need to
reschedule it and are gratified that the Assembly has
decided to hold this session next May in order to give
the issues of children and youth the prominence they
deserve. On a related note, I am pleased to report that
the Federated States of Micronesia has begun the
process of evaluation with a view to signing and
ratifying the two Optional Protocols to the Convention
on the Rights of the Child.
Given the monumental pace of change, it is not
surprising that in some respects the United Nations
itself has been unable to keep pace with developments.
We are appreciative of ongoing reform efforts, but we
would encourage redoubled efforts on remaining
matters that cry out for attention, such as the
reconstitution of the Security Council.
While my nation grapples with the entire
spectrum of transnational problems, such as drug
trafficking and other aspects of international criminal
activity, there is one threat that has our special
attention. I am speaking, of course, about the
accelerated rise in sea level caused by global climate
change. We now know that the production of
greenhouse gases by human activity plays a prominent
role. It is this global issue that threatens my country’s
future as no other.
The Federated States of Micronesia contributes
only in an infinitesimal way to the problem of human-
induced climate change; yet we are among the “front-
line” States that must deal with its impacts. We are
comprised of a geologically diverse range of islands,
from low-level coral atolls to mountainous volcanic
outcrops. All share one common denominator — since
the dawn of time, our people’s livelihood has been tied
to the sea. Even on our high islands, such as Pohnpei
and Kosrae, the vast majority of the population on all
islands lives in the coastal plain. On most islands, the
possibility of moving to higher ground does not exist.
The distinguished scientists of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
have confirmed that the climate is changing and that
human activities are playing a significant part in the
warming of our planet. Credible scientific evidence
suggests that the magnitude of the impact of that
warming may be greater than even the most extreme
estimates just 10 years ago. Indeed, it may already be
too late to save my country and many others like it
worldwide.
Already, our region has seen the beginnings of the
movement of its peoples as a result of the rise in sea
level caused by global warming. This year, Tuvalu, one
of our similarly situated neighbours in the region,
announced that it had begun examining relocation
options. Unfortunately, its initial results were not
encouraging, as there is no uniform willingness among
more fortunate countries to provide a haven for these
first “climate change refugees”. Undoubtedly, it will be
the outlying atolls of the Federated States of
Micronesia, home to about half of our population, that
are among the next to join the people of Tuvalu if
current trends continue.
These developments point with new urgency to
the need for constructive discussion of adaptation
strategies and funding for small island developing
States. We are encouraged by the new attention paid to
these issues at the recent conference in Bonn, and we
welcome the constructive outcomes of the conference
just completed in Marrakesh with regard to such
important issues as the enforcement of compliance.
We and all other parties to the Framework
Convention on Climate Change, signed nine years ago,
were motivated by the “precautionary principle”,
whereby the lack of airtight scientific certainty could
not be the basis for inaction. Today, virtually no
uncertainty remains as to the reality of the main
problem. Yet we are dismayed to see that in the media
and elsewhere a handful of “greenhouse gas sceptics”
are often still given a podium equal to that given to the
distinguished scientists of the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change.
In the past 10 years we have seen some progress
in the form of the Framework Convention and the
Kyoto Protocol, thanks to the tireless efforts of many
delegations and good will on the part of Governments.
However, a change in the position of several key
signatories to the Protocol, which are also among the
world’s largest generators of greenhouse gases,
undermines the success of the recent Bonn and
Marrakesh talks, and has created a great deal of
concern on the part of all low-lying island States. We
warmly applaud those countries that have stood by
their commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
4

We call upon those that have not to find the political
will to take the actions that are, after all, in their own
long-term best interests.
I do not mean to ignore the initial economic
hardships these changes might entail; we understand
them all too well. In the last five years, the Federated
States of Micronesia has taken unprecedented measures
to reduce the size of its public sector, far and away the
largest employer in my country. These moves were
vastly unpopular politically. Still, they were necessary
and have put us on the right footing for a sustainable
economic future. Similarly, longer-term economic
benefits and competitive advantage can be gained by
those nations that adopt a progressive climate change
strategy.
We Micronesians are a proud people. Throughout
the centuries, we have endured seemingly
insurmountable difficulties. The threat from climate
change is only the latest of these. Like some others we
have faced, it is not of our own making, and it is not
something that we can overcome by ourselves. The
Kyoto Protocol, as it has been hammered out in
Marrakesh, provides a necessary mechanism with
which most nations can begin to attack global
warming. I congratulate the negotiators on their
significant, even historic, accomplishment. The
emission cuts agreed to, however, amount to only a
small first step.
In conclusion, I want to reiterate the sincere
condolences of the people of the Federated States of
Micronesia to those in all regions of the world who are
suffering today from violence, poverty, terrorism and
the violation of human rights. We pray for a peaceful
end to the current conflicts raging throughout many
regions.
We are reassured that the spirit and principles of
the United Nations will guide leaders as they strive to
prevent future outbreaks of violence while seeking to
relieve current suffering. My delegation is proud of its
contributions during our first 10 years of membership
and pledges to do its utmost to continue to advance the
goals of the United Nations for the betterment of all
people throughout the world.



"
56,2001,CAN,"﻿It is indeed an honour to
be here in New York City and at the General Assembly.
That we are gathered here now, just two months since
the devastating terrorist attacks of 11 September,
demonstrates both the resilience of this great city and
the determination and defiance of a united global
community.
Having spent last Sunday — like my friend Prime
Minister Dzurinda of Slovakia — running through so
many streets and communities of the five boroughs of
New York City in the annual New York City Marathon,
I have witnessed personally and been quite
overwhelmed by the deep reserves of courage evident
in this city and in all those individuals who are
choosing to take back their lives and reject the menace
of terror.
Our job is to galvanize and to focus the courage
of nations — to transform sentiment into commitment,
and commitment into action. Expressions of a common
outrage are gratifying but they will never be enough to
defeat terrorism. The ultimate success of our
campaign — this long and extremely complex
campaign — rests upon our collective ability to
demonstrate leadership, to harness political will and to
sustain the commitment that we have made to each
other and to our citizens: that we will not allow crimes
so vile, so immense and so shattering to the world to be
unanswered or ever to be repeated.
32

In order to achieve these goals — and to merit the
trust and fulfil the expectations placed in the United
Nations and its constituent Member States — we
cannot go on as before. There can be no more
“business as usual”. There is no more time, there is no
more patience and there are no more resources for
diplomatic gamesmanship and the stoking of dangerous
self-interest. National Governments must take
responsibility and be held accountable for their actions
and decisions — for fighting terrorism, for undertaking
political and legal reforms, for resolving disputes and
for establishing the conditions in which democracy
flourishes and development is sustained.
(spoke in French)
The United Nations is now facing its greatest test
ever since its creation. So far, the United Nations is
performing admirably. The unity of purpose and
effective decision-making that allowed swift passage of
the landmark Security Council resolution 1373 (2001)
and the rapid convening of a special debate on
terrorism provide clear evidence of what we can
accomplish together, and further underscore the
reasons why this Organization and its esteemed
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, were deservedly
recognized with the Nobel Peace Prize this year.
(spoke in English)
We cannot, however, afford to lose ourselves in
complacency, self-congratulation or distraction. Our
work has only just begun.
Horrific as the atrocities perpetrated on 11
September were, terrorism did not begin here.
Unfortunately, too many of us in this Hall know this all
too painfully. No, it did not begin here; but we as a
global community have the responsibility, and now a
renewed opportunity, to ensure that we end it — here.
The United Nations has a unique and
indispensable role to play. While the campaign against
terrorism will be conducted through coalitions of
different State actors, alliances and organizations, this
is where it must ultimately all come together in its
political, diplomatic, legal, economic, humanitarian
and security dimensions. We in Canada, as long-
standing proponents of multilateralism and the United
Nations system, have strongly welcomed the close
collaboration evident between the United States
Administration and the United Nations over these last
two months.
In Canada, the campaign against terrorism,
including the obligations we have undertaken here at
the United Nations, is our highest priority. Our country,
which shares with the United States the longest
unmilitarized border in the world and the closest, most
extensive and most profitable bilateral relationship
anywhere, has been deeply affected by this crisis.
Canadians, like Americans and citizens of many other
nations, are concerned about their security, but also
about what kind of a country and what kind of a world
they are to live in after 11 September. The interlinked
goals of protecting our citizens, providing assurance to
our partners and allies and preserving the character of
our free, democratic and diverse society have guided
the actions and decisions of Prime Minister Chrétien
and the Canadian Government throughout this crisis.
We have committed 2000 armed forces personnel,
ships, aircraft and special forces to the international
military coalition against terrorism; and at home, we
have introduced a wide range of measures, legislation
and new investments to bolster our security framework,
including at the border and at our airports.
Canada welcomes the reporting and monitoring
functions provided for in Security Council resolution
1373 (2001). We have already implemented many of its
provisions and are moving quickly on the rest. We are
well advanced in the preparation of our report and will
provide it to the Counter-Terrorism Committee well
ahead of the 90-day deadline. We urge other Member
nations to demonstrate their continued resolve and
solidarity by doing likewise. Canada is prepared to
support those States for which implementation poses a
great challenge.
As we take steps in compliance with resolution
1373 (2001), we are completing our ratification of the
Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings
and the Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism, which will make Canada a full
party to all 12 existing United Nations counter-
terrorism conventions. Negotiations are under way on
the thirteenth convention, the comprehensive
convention against international terrorism. That
convention will ensure that all terrorist acts are
condemned under international law. What is needed
now is the political will to complete the negotiations. If
not the General Assembly of the United Nations, then
who? And if not now, then when? The time will never
be more propitious, or the need greater.
33

Our international legal framework also requires a
strong arms control, non-proliferation and disarmament
regime. Implementation of the Ottawa Convention
banning anti-personnel mines is proceeding apace. To
keep weapons of mass destruction from becoming
employed as the instruments of evil, we are also hard at
work to reinforce key instruments such as the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty, the International Atomic
Energy Agency safeguards, the Chemical Weapons
Convention and the Biological Weapons Convention,
all requiring strong multilateral action to ensure their
full implementation.
I would also add that we are now very close to
making the International Criminal Court a reality, with
only 17 more ratifications to go. The creation of the
Court will represent an extremely significant step in the
ongoing struggle to eliminate impunity for the worst
crimes known to humankind.
These are only the most immediate and most
obvious steps to ensure our collective security, but our
agenda must be far broader than this. Nothing has more
violently shaken our sense of security than have the
events of 11 September. But our conception of what
constitutes security and the nature of the threats that
may be posed to it was already undergoing dramatic
evolution prior to the attacks.
The denial of human rights, the spread of
HIV/AIDS, persistent mass poverty, unchecked
environmental degradation and the blight of drugs and
crime all undermine stability, reduce human potential
and obstruct social and economic progress. They are
threats to human security, as are discrimination and
racism, which the Durban Conference was intended to
address. Unfortunately, it failed to achieve its potential
and instead provided a forum for propagating long-
standing hatreds and biases, and the world is poorer for
that.
The resolution and prevention of conflict must
also remain at the highest order of United Nations
business, but leadership and commitment are required
if we are to move from a culture of reaction to one of
prevention, as proposed by the Secretary-General.
Just a week ago, I ended a five-country visit to
the Middle East. I was reassured by the commitments
of my hosts to the fight against terrorism. As have
others, I urged Israel and the Palestinians to put
immediately into place measures that will bring them
back to the negotiating table. That is their only way
forward. The essential truth is that there is no
alternative to peaceful coexistence. That conflict
cannot go on forever and leaders must act now to bring
it to an end. The international community must also
increase its efforts to help bring about a just peace.
Finally, there is little that is more debilitating to
humankind than the ravages of extreme poverty. This is
most notable in Africa, which will be a principal focus
for the G-8 in 2002, when Canada will assume the G-8
chair. Speaking at this rostrum in 1963, Prime Minister
Lester B. Pearson, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, warned
the world of the dangers of a growing disparity in
economic and social development between nations. He
urged that this “must be corrected before it creates an
unbridgeable gulf between ‘have’ and ‘have-not’
nations” (A/PV.1208, para. 60). That was 38 years ago
and the challenge remains more acute than ever.
The pledges of the Millennium Summit in
September 2000 must not be overshadowed by the
urgency of the events that have taken place one year
later. Indeed, their fulfilment can and must form an
integral component of how we create a strong,
equitable global environment that can be neither
attacked nor exploited by terrorists.
Terrorism does not speak to us; it does not speak
for anyone but criminals and murderers and it only
serves to undermine the causes they purport to
represent. It does not represent Islam; it does not
reflect the will of the Afghan people.
(spoke in French)
The fate of the Afghan people must remain
sharply in our focus. That country has been so
neglected, so abused and so driven into isolation by its
self-appointed rulers that it could not even be ranked
on the most recent United Nations human development
index. The rights of its people — notably women and
girls — have been blatantly and repeatedly violated.
(spoke in English)
An acute humanitarian crisis is building and we
must do more, working with United Nations agencies
and other relief organizations, to ensure that
civilians — including refugees and internally displaced
persons — are protected and have access to food and to
aid.
For this reason, Canada responded to the United
Nations humanitarian appeal, adding further resources
34

to the $160 million in aid that we had already provided
over the last 10 years. We were also pleased at the
prompt appointment of Lakhdar Brahimi — who has
played such an integral role in the reform of United
Nations peacekeeping — as the Secretary-General’s
Special Representative for Afghanistan. Canada has
pledged to work with Ambassador Brahimi and other
coalition States to support the Afghan people in the
search for a stable, fair and effective administration
that can begin the enormous task of leading
Afghanistan forward to a more secure and hopeful
future.
The opportunities for progress towards a more
free, prosperous and peaceful world have always been
before us. In the haze of self-interest and competing
priorities, sometimes our global community has not
seen them so clearly. The enormous horror of 11
September has offered us that clarity, just as it has
concentrated minds and catalysed relationships. It has
given us a renewed basis for cooperation between
States both in and outside the United Nations, driven
not only by the United States and its traditional allies,
including Canada, but also through opportunities for
leadership provided to Russia and China, to India and
Pakistan, to countries of the Middle East, North Africa,
Asia and elsewhere in the resolution of this crisis.
Terrorism globalizes us. It globalizes outrage and
condemnation, just as it does compassion and the cry
for justice. We must ensure that terrorism also
globalizes a sustained commitment to bringing about
its end.
Tomorrow, 11 November, Canada and other
United Nations Member nations will mark our annual
Remembrance Day. On this day, we remember and
honour the men and women who have fought and
sacrificed for our freedom. This week in New York, I
hope that we will all take time to remember what it is
that we are together working — and, yes, fighting —
for today: for freedom, for peace and for justice, and
for the dignity and realization of the potential of all
peoples everywhere.
As we make our speeches, file our papers and
press forward our resolutions in this great Hall, let us
also remember that the words “United Nations” —
coined by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1942 —
not only refer to an Organization or a name on a
building, but were first and foremost a declaration of
solidarity and of a common vision for a better world.





"
56,2001,PSE,"﻿I would
like to begin by extending my congratulations to you,
Mr. President, on your election as President of the
General Assembly at this session. I would also like to
extend my congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan on his
re-election to a second term as Secretary-General of the
United Nations. I also wish to congratulate him and the
United Nations on being awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize.
It is important for me to be here today at this
meeting, which is being held in very critical and
important circumstances in the aftermath of the
horrific, criminal and ugly terrorist acts against the
cities of New York and Washington, D.C., on 11
September 2001. We strongly condemn those acts. In
this context, I would once more like to extend our
deepest and warmest sympathy to President George W.
Bush and to the Government and the friendly people of
the United States. In particular, I wish to express my
condolences to the families of the victims.
The Palestinian people have expressed their
readiness to confront all forms and manifestations of
international terrorism, including State-organized
terror, in order to build a new world that guarantees
justice, peace, security and freedom for all peoples — a
new world based on human rights and international
legality. We call on all nations to coordinate their
efforts within the framework of the United Nations and
international legality and the need to pursue and
encourage a dialogue between all nations, religions and
civilizations.
I would like to express my deepest appreciation
to President George W. Bush for the declaration
contained in the statement he made yesterday with
regard to the need to achieve a just peace based on the
implementation of Security Council resolutions 242
(1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and on the basis of
a two-State solution — Israel and Palestine — and with
regard to expeditiously resuming the peace process.
For our part, we will exert every possible effort to
achieve those objectives. We have worked to provide
the best possible conditions for that endeavour, and we
will continue to do so.
I would also like to salute, and extend my
appreciation to, all my brothers who have preceded me
and clearly and eloquently made references to the
question of the Palestinian people and their right to
realize their legitimate rights under international
legality.
Last year I had the honour of addressing the
United Nations Millennium Summit. Today I am once
again addressing the Assembly, bringing the pain of the
Palestinian people and their just cause, which still
awaits a just solution. As Members will recall, in 1947
the General Assembly adopted resolution 181 (III),
which provided for the partition of Palestine into two
States — one Jewish and the other Palestinian. But the
Palestinian State has still not been recognized by the
United Nations. The Palestinian people faced
tremendous historic injustice, and the majority of them
were uprooted from their homes and made refugees.
The Palestinian people continue to seek their
rights to self-determination and return — rights that
today form the backbone of all relevant Security
Council and General Assembly resolutions, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, international
33

law and international humanitarian law and that should
be exercised on the Palestinian national soil. Members
are aware that we have accepted the solution provided
for by international legality. Yes, we have accepted less
than 25 per cent of historic Palestine, while the General
Assembly granted us almost 50 per cent of historic
Palestine, as provided for in resolution 181 (III). On
this new approach, we went to the Madrid Peace
Conference, which was based on the principle of “land
for peace” and which had the objective of
implementing all relevant international resolutions
related to Palestine, particularly Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 425 (1978) and
General Assembly resolution 194 (III) concerning the
Palestinian refugees. Then we signed the Oslo
Agreement at the White House in Washington, D.C., in
the presence of and witnessed by representatives of the
United States of America, the Russian Federation, the
European Union, China, Japan, Egypt, Jordan and other
countries, including Arab, African, Asian and Latin
America States.
Later we signed a number of agreements and
memorandums of understanding. After the
assassination of my late partner, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin —
my partner in the peace process — consecutive Israeli
Governments clearly took the path of non-compliance
and did not implement Israel’s obligations stemming
from the signed agreements. This impeded our sincere
efforts to reach a comprehensive, just and lasting
peace — the peace of the brave. The number of
settlements and settlers has doubled since the start of
the peace process. This reflects the lack of seriousness
of the Israeli Government and its lack of commitment
to the agreements signed between us.
Then came Sharon’s visit to the holy sanctuary in
Holy Jerusalem. I had personally and officially warned
the Israeli Government of the grave consequences that
would have on the peace process and the region. This
action sparked the Palestinian intifada, reflecting the
rejection by the Palestinian people of the Israeli
Government’s non-compliance with the agreements
signed, the settlement policies, which deepen the
occupation rather than end it by withdrawing from the
occupied Palestinian territory, and its policies of
undermining our Christian and Muslim Holy Places.
The current Israeli Government continues the
aggression against the Palestinian people begun by the
previous Government. State terror is being practised
against the Palestinian people and land, using the might
of the Israeli army, including F-15s, F-16s, Apache
helicopters, tanks, missiles, armoured vehicles, navy
vessels and lethal weapons, including those that are
internationally banned. Practices of the Israeli army
also include the assassination of Palestinian political
leaders, the demolition of homes, the destruction of
private and government institutions, ruining farms and
fields and uprooting hundreds of thousands of olive
and fruit trees, as well as the killing of women,
children and the elderly. There have been
approximately 1,800 Palestinians killed and 37,000
wounded. Many of them have been handicapped for
life. Thousands have been arrested in only 13 months.
It should also be noted that the Palestinian
economy has been devastated. The losses amount to
$7 billion as a result of all forms of economic,
financial, medical and food closures and sieges
imposed on all the Palestinian cities, villages and
refugee camps. These practices continue to restrict the
movement of goods and people, including students and
teachers who are prevented from reaching their schools
and universities. All these acts of closure and siege
have recently been tightened. Our international
borders, checkpoints and airports have been closed. All
these measures violate outright basic human rights.
Workers have also been prevented from reaching their
work places, their means to sustain their families and
children.
Facing this aggression, escalation and the bloody
war of State terror being waged by the Israeli
Government against our people, land, Holy Places, —
Jerusalem in particular — and Bethlehem, Beit Jala,
Hebron and other Palestinian towns, the incursion into
our cities, villages and refugee camps with tanks and
the brutal massacres committed in various locations in
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, we call on the
international community, as represented by all present,
and on the peace-, freedom- and justice-loving people
who defend human rights and dignity throughout the
world to work sincerely and resolutely and to exert all
possible efforts to stop this war of aggression and to
send international observers to protect our people from
the occupation, terror and ethnic cleansing practised by
Israel and to supervise the implementation and the
consolidation of the ceasefire, by which we are abiding
and which has been consistently violated by the Israeli
Government.
International sponsorship of the Middle East
peace process is the only true guarantee for efforts by
34

the international community to make peace an
established reality in our region. The absence of
international involvement in this conflict — in the
serious search for a solution to the Palestinian question,
in accordance with justice and the principles of
international law — will push the region back into a
spiral of violence, confrontation and bloodshed and
could make the situation more explosive and fragile.
Therefore, I call upon the international
community to redouble its sincere efforts to end the
current situation and the escalating crisis that, in the
absence of the peace process, threatens to explode,
with grave consequences for our region. The active
involvement of the international community and the
influential Great Powers is essential to save the peace
process and to put it back on the right track, to move it
forward sincerely, resolutely and effectively. Lasting
peace will not be achieved or sustained without
international legality to provide an effective and
binding international mechanism to implement the
relevant Security Council and General Assembly
resolutions. The accurate and honest implementation of
these resolutions will establish and sustain peace and
will prevent bloodshed in our region.
Proceeding from our belief in peace as an
irreversible strategic choice of our people, we have
cooperated fully and positively with all international
efforts and initiatives, including the Egyptian-
Jordanian initiative, the Tenet Understandings and the
Mitchell Report, which we accepted as a
comprehensive, integrated package. We have also
unilaterally declared an immediate comprehensive
ceasefire, and we have exerted maximum efforts to
sustain that ceasefire. On the eve of the Jewish New
Year, we initiated the Palestinian call for peace, offered
our sincere congratulations to the Israeli people and
called upon them to make the New Year an occasion
for a new era of peace, security and peaceful
coexistence between the Palestinian and Israeli peoples
and the peoples of the whole Middle East region. We
made very clear and unequivocal our strategic
commitment to peace, negotiations and the political
solution to all outstanding issues between us and the
Government of Israel.
Most regrettably, the Israeli Government
instructed its war generals and army to escalate the
military campaign against our people, cities, villages
and refugee camps. This included the buffer zones and
the siege that closed off wide areas of cities, villages
and cultivated lands and led to the destruction of our
farms and the uprooting of thousands of trees in
various places in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Allow me to extend my deepest appreciation and
to salute sincerely all the brotherly, friendly nations
and to the Great Powers that have realized today, more
than ever before, that the establishment of an
independent Palestinian State, with Holy Jerusalem as
its capital, is the only guarantee for peace, security and
stability in the region and the world. This constitutes a
basic cornerstone in establishing and sustaining that
peace.
We call upon these nations, particularly the
United States, the United Kingdom, the Russian
Federation, France, China, Japan, the members of the
European Union and the non-aligned countries, the
international community, individually and collectively,
to exert every possible effort to translate this vision
into action and political reality in order to enable the
Palestinian people to live in peace, dignity, freedom,
independence and sovereignty within their independent
State on their national soil, with Holy Jerusalem as its
capital. This can be achieved by bringing Israel, the
occupying Power, to withdraw fully from all of the
occupied Palestinian and Arab territories, including
Holy Jerusalem, to the boundaries of 4 June 1967, in
accordance with the principles of the Madrid Peace
Conference, to end settlement activities and evacuate
settlers from our land, and to guarantee the right of
return to the Palestinian refugees, in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 194 (III), which provided
for this right and called for compensation to those not
wishing to return.
We welcome the positive positions taken by
President George W. Bush and other leaders who have
called for the establishment of a Palestinian State. We
believe this constitutes a significant step towards
ending the conflict and establishing peace in the
Middle East. I will say candidly to you that reviving
and completing the peace process will need a new
qualitative push, and after all that has happened it will
not be possible to confine ourselves to interim
solutions. It is impossible, of course, to achieve another
interim agreement, as called for by some. To control
the situation on the ground and to get the situation back
to the way it existed before 28 September 2000
requires clear political imagination and new hope.
35

What the peace process now requires to achieve a
just and lasting peace is a genuine effort on the part of
the co-sponsors of the peace process — the United
States and the Russian Federation — as well as
influential international actors, including the European
Union, and of course the Arab and Muslim countries
and other friendly nations in the Non-Aligned
Movement as well as in the United Nations. All of
them should immediately introduce a comprehensive
framework for a permanent final solution based on
international legality and the agreements signed so that
both parties can negotiate expeditiously the details of
that permanent solution. This, of course, should be
preceded by the full and immediate implementation of
the Mitchell Report and the Tenet Understandings.
It is clear that we are in need of greater
international efforts, including an international
presence on the ground, to help the parties move
forward. In any case, the United Nations and the
Secretary-General must carry out their natural and
important roles in this regard so that we can achieve
our desired peace objectives. I call upon the Israeli
Government and the Israeli people to respond
positively to this approach so that we can together
build peace in the land of peace, the Holy Land of
peace — the Holy Land; I repeat, the Holy Land.
Needless to say, we need an expeditious effort
that brooks no further delay, especially at the current
international situation. We are ready to carry out our
share of responsibility. We trust you are also ready to
shoulder your share of responsibility. I realize that the
international community, after the assassination of my
partner, Yitzhak Rabin, is looking forward to the peace
process. From here I convey to the Israeli people my
full commitment to the peace process, which I began
with my late partner Yitzhak Rabin, and my partner
Shimon Peres, a peace that guarantees freedom,
stability and security for the Israelis and the
Palestinians and all the peoples in the Middle East
region — the peace of the brave; the just and
comprehensive and lasting peace that will end the
Israeli occupation of all the Palestinian and Arab
territories and will lead to the establishment of the
independent Palestinian State with Holy Jerusalem as
its capital.
This is what we should be working for, for the
sake of our children and their children. From here I call
upon the Israeli Government to resume the final status
negotiations in order to implement the resolutions of
international legality and the agreements signed.
I salute all of you and hope that this session will
produce the required solutions and recommendations
which will enable our peoples and our nations and the
whole of humanity to live in peace, stability, progress
and prosperity.
May peace and God’s blessing be with you."
56,2001,TZA,"﻿I
would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you,
Mr. President, on your election as President of the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. Your
election is a clear manifestation of the entire
membership’s confidence in and high regard for your
able leadership and diplomatic skills. We wish you
success in the tasks ahead. I want to assure you of my
delegation’s full cooperation and support.
Our salutations are also extended to your
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, for a job
well done.
Allow me also to sincerely congratulate
Secretary-General Kofi Annan on the able and
distinguished manner in which he has continued to
administer and guide the affairs of our Organization.
His re-election to a second term attests to the
confidence and trust that we have in him. The award of
this year’s Nobel Peace Prize to him and the United
Nations is recognition of his personal attributes and
contributions to strengthening the world body. It is also
recognition of the glorious performance and
achievements of the United Nations in the search of
global peace, solidarity and prosperity.
As we applaud and pay tribute to the Secretary-
General and the United Nations for their remarkable
achievements, the horrific terrorist attacks of 11
September against the United States are a clear
reminder to us all that the fight for lasting world peace
is far from being won. Strangely enough, the fight can
take new dangerous dimensions when aeroplanes,
which are a magnificent human invention for the fast
movement of people, goods and services between
distant places, can themselves become weapons in
terror attacks.
Coming from a country that fell victim to a
terrorist attack with the bombing of the United States
Embassy in Dar es Salaam in 1998, I can clearly
understand the pain, anger and quest for revenge on the
part of President George Bush, his Administration and
the people of the United States of America. On that
fateful day, when 11 of our fellow citizen’s perished
and over 70 people were wounded, the Government
and people of my country felt exactly the same. We
therefore perceive and share the pain and grief of the
people of the United States and support their right and
that of their Government to seek redresses and fight the
perpetrators of this heinous crime.
Terrorism is a horrendous crime in its brutality
and victimization. It is wanton, cruel and
indiscriminate. The world must work together to fight
and defeat it. Allow me to reiterate Tanzania’s pledges,
resolve and readiness to continue to participate fully in
the efforts to combat terrorism.
The events of 11 September remind us once more
of the need to expedite the process establishing the
International Criminal Court.
Allow me also to convey sincere sympathy to the
families of the deceased in yesterday’s tragic plane
crash. Our thoughts and prayers are with them in this
time of grief.
This is the first session of the General Assembly
after the Millennium Summit held here last year. At
that Summit, the world leaders defined the agenda and
strategies of our Organization in the new century.
There was common understanding in the new century, a
resolve to continue to work together to tackle the
numerous problems bequeathed by the last century. It is
the view of my delegation that this session of the
General Assembly and the subsequent ones should
translate that commitment into concrete actions.
Permit me at this juncture to share with the
Assembly some thoughts about what could be the
important priorities of the United Nations. Tanzania
11

would like to see a United Nations that continues to be
the guarantor of world peace and security, a United
Nations that has the development agenda at the centre
of its main objectives and activities and a United
Nations that continues to fight for justice and equality
among peoples and nations the world over.
Strengthening and revitalizing the United Nations
is an imperative we all agreed to undertake almost a
decade ago. We have done a remarkable job as regards
the restructuring of the Secretariat and the United
Nations agencies. It is regrettable that reform and
restructuring of the Security Council remain elusive. A
process started seven years ago has yet to bear the
desired result. The disturbing thing is the fact that in
some quarters it no longer appears to be a priority
subject.
Tanzania believes that expansion of Security
Council membership in both categories is as relevant
and desirable today as it was seven years ago. We
would like to reaffirm our support for the principle of
equitable representation of Member States on the basis
of their geographical regions. In particular, we want to
reiterate support for Africa’s request for two seats in
the permanent category. As the continent with the
largest portion of the membership of our Organization,
such a representation is well deserved. We also think
that the time has come to have a serious look at the
circumstances and modalities for invoking the use of
veto powers. We are of the view that the veto power
should be used in pursuit of global interests, and not
narrow national interests.
At the Millennium Summit, world leaders
emphasized that the development agenda should
continue to be at the centre of the objectives and
activities of the United Nations. We know that the
United Nations is not a major funding institution, but
over the years it has been the moral force behind the
many difficult decisions taken to address serious
economic issues. The United Nations organized several
forums where various development agenda items were
discussed and continue to be discussed, and decisions
taken. We want the United Nations to continue to do
that.
In a period of global economic slow-down like
the one we are witnessing today, the task of forging
new strategies to tackle the intractable problems of
poverty, hunger, disease, deprivation and
environmental degradation becomes very challenging
indeed. We hope the current economic crisis will not
last long, because if it does its consequences may be
bad for us all, especially the developing countries. I
would also add that Africa, as a continent with 34 of
the 48 least developed countries, will suffer the most.
In view of this situation, this world body, donor
countries and least developed countries must muster
collective efforts to ensure that these problems and
many more are addressed collectively. I know that
there can never be quick fixes to resolving such
problems. However, building those kinds of
partnerships is one thing that the United Nations should
help realize.
There is no doubt that for development to make
sense in the context of the developing countries like
Tanzania, the availability of official development
assistance (ODA), plus long-term capital flows and
access to technology and markets of the developed
countries, are essential. These will have a catalytic role
in building domestic supply capacity.
We are particularly concerned that the situation
with regard to availability of ODA is still not
encouraging. Most developed countries are far from
meeting the target of contributing 0.7 per cent of their
gross domestic product to ODA, as agreed way back in
1970 and reiterated at the 1992 Rio Summit. What is
more disturbing to us is the fact that the decline
continues unabated despite numerous appeals. My
delegation would once again like to use this
opportunity to call upon the developed countries to
honour this historic duty to mankind. We hope the
United Nations will remain seized of the matter and
exercise leadership.
The flow of foreign direct investment (FDI),
which is so essential for inducing growth in our
nations, leaves much to be desired. So far, the flow of
FDI is not as we would have wanted or have expected
it to be.
The painful part of this problem is the fact that
many of our countries have done everything that has
been demanded of us in order to create a conducive
environment for FDI to flow, yet there is not much of it
coming. Take the example of my country, where we
have established, through an Act of Parliament, a
financial, legal and institutional framework as
attractive and competitive as one would find anywhere
in the world. We have a sound macroeconomic
environment; there is political stability; and good
12

governance and democracy are vibrant, yet foreign
direct investment flows are minimal.
My country’s experience is the experience of
many countries in the developing world. We are at a
loss as to what else we have to do. Maybe someone
will volunteer to tell us. While we continue to appeal to
the developed countries to do more, we request the
indulgence of the United Nations. In this regard, we
welcome and support the convening of the
International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held next March. We hope that the
question of ODA and FDI will be given appropriate
consideration. I promise Tanzania’s full participation in
that Conference.
Easy access by the developing countries to the
technology and markets of the developed world could
contribute immensely towards the alleviation and
eventual eradication of poverty in the world. There are
encouraging developments in the area of market access,
with initiatives such as the Africa Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA), which allows over 1,800
products from countries of sub-Saharan Africa to enter
the United States market duty-free and quota-free, and
the Cotonou Agreement, which allows everything but
arms from the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and
the Pacific to enter the European Union duty-free and
quota-free.
We hope the initiatives taken by Japan under the
Tokyo International Conference on African
Development (TICAD) and by the People’s Republic of
China under the China-Africa Cooperation Forum will
go a little further and offer opportunities similar to
those offered under AGOA and the Cotonou
Agreement. It is our sincere hope and expectation that
the four aforementioned initiatives by the United
States, the European Union, China and Japan will also
ease the difficulties experienced by our countries in
accessing the financial, scientific and technological
resources available in those nations. While our nations
will continue to engage the developed countries
bilaterally or collectively in various forums, the United
Nations should never lose sight of the need to help us.
The problem of the external debt of developing
countries, and particularly of the least developed
countries, continues to pose a serious challenge to the
development efforts of those countries. External debt
servicing has been crowding out priority social
investments in our respective countries. In Tanzania,
for example, debt servicing averaged one-third of the
entire Government’s budget. With another one-third
spent on payment of salaries, the Government is left
with only a third of the budget to perform its duties,
which range from maintaining law and order to the
provision of basic social and economic services. This
clearly underscores the fact that debt relief and debt
forgiveness for nations like mine will go a long way
towards enhancing Government capacity to discharge
its duties.
In this regard, Tanzania welcomes the various
measures undertaken by the international community
aimed at dealing with this chronic debt problem. Our
only concern is that, despite all these measures, the
scope and magnitude of debt is continuing to build up
to dangerous proportions. More surgical measures
should therefore be taken to deal more effectively with
this crippling problem.
Let me now turn to issues related to peace and
security. At the outset, let me state that it is
heartwarming to see the Security Council more
engaged in the process of trying to tackle the crisis in
the Great Lakes region. The Government of Tanzania is
committed to building a secure and stable Great Lakes
region. In this regard, I want to assure the United
Nations that we will continue to play a positive role, as
we have been doing, in order to help the people of
Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
secure and enjoy the peace which they so richly
deserve.
It is encouraging to note that in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, despite difficulties, the
implementation of the Lusaka Agreement is on track.
We are particularly glad that the inter-Congolese
dialogue is under way. I would like to use this
opportunity to appeal to the parties to the conflict to
stay the course. We also appeal to the Security Council
to remain seized of the matter, and to the international
community to extend the urgently needed financial
resources to the facilitation of the dialogue.
We welcome the installation of the Transitional
Government in Burundi. We hope that this historic
event, which marks the successful conclusion of long
and arduous political negotiations, is also the
beginning of an irreversible process that will put an
end to the long years of pain and suffering endured by
the people of Burundi. Indeed, the subregion continues
to work towards the cessation of hostilities and towards
13

ultimately securing a ceasefire agreement between the
rebels and the Government. In this respect, I would like
to take this opportunity to say three things.
First, let me reiterate Tanzania’s previous calls
for the leaders of the Front for the Defence of
Democracy (FDD) and the National Liberation Forces
(FNL) to see reason and to join the Arusha process. I
believe that there is nothing they are fighting for which
has not been discussed and decided upon in the Arusha
Agreement. Even if they feel strongly that something
has been excluded, the Arusha Agreement provides
opportunities for discussion of the same by the parties.
Secondly, Tanzania promises its readiness to
work with the new Government and to do all it can to
help it succeed. We are ready to work with the new
Administration in Bujumbura and with the Front for
Democracy in Burundi (FRODEBU) to engage the
rebels and encourage them to join the Arusha
Agreement.
The third issue I would like to address relates to
the repatriation of Burundi refugees living in Tanzania.
It need not be emphasized that the return of refugees to
their homeland is a crucial element in the healing and
normalization process in that troubled country. As host
to over 800,000 refugees from Burundi, Tanzania
expects repatriation of these refugees to be among the
top priority issues in the implementation of the Arusha
Agreement. It is our sincere hope that, in that exercise,
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees (UNHCR) will include not only the half a
million people in the camps that they manage in
Kigoma and Ngara, but also the earlier caseloads of
about 300,000 they left to Tanzania to manage.
It is sad that Savimbi and his renegade UNITA
continue to be a menace in Angola. The United Nations
and the international community should do more to
stop this menace. If action could be taken in Kosovo
and Sierra Leone against criminal leaders, why not do
the same against Savimbi and UNITA? I believe it can
be done. Let us muster the political courage.
With regard to Western Sahara, Tanzania
reiterates its long-held position that this is a question of
decolonization and that the Sahrawi people have a right
to decide on their future through a referendum, as
stipulated in the relevant Security Council resolutions.
We fear that abandoning that path could lead to
untoward events.
It is regrettable that the situation in the Middle
East remains volatile and explosive. It is our hope that
the peace negotiations between Palestine and Israel
will be revived through a resolute commitment by all
parties. The United Nations has a major role in
ensuring that the peace process gets back on track. The
commitment made by President Bush on the creation of
the state of Palestine on the basis of Security Council
resolutions is very reassuring. We hope this will be
followed through and that the United States
Government will once again assume its leadership role.
As host country to the International Criminal
Tribunal for Rwanda, we cannot but reiterate our call
for continued support for the Tribunal. It is gratifying
that the Tribunal’s mission of bringing to justice those
responsible for the genocide in Rwanda is well under
way. Contrary to previous negative publicity, the
Tribunal is increasingly obtaining the appreciation and
credit it deserves for its work.
I would be remiss if I were to conclude my
remarks without saying a word about the debilitating
disease of HIV/AIDS. The impact of this worldwide
scourge is not only a major scientific and medical
challenge, but a threat to the very existence of
humanity. Our leaders at the June special session
dedicated to HIV/AIDS pronounced themselves on this
scourge and on their resolve to fight it. Let me express
our appreciation for the leadership role of the United
Nations, particularly the Secretary-General’s
commitment to combat this global crisis, from which
no corner of this world is safe.
I believe that, with resolute political will, the war
against this world pandemic is not insurmountable.



"
56,2001,BOL,"﻿I
come from the city of La Paz to add Bolivia’s voice to
this universal support the United Nations has received
through the Nobel Peace Prize. This award expresses
better than all the speeches could possibly do the way
in which the world appreciates the Organization and its
Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan. The mediating role
performed by the Organization, its calls to nations to
agree among themselves, the courage it has in
assuming risks and the willingness it has shown to
offer lives for a cause go beyond the mere performance
of a duty; they are an example to all our Governments.
The active role played by the Organization is more
necessary now than ever before.
This is a time in which the evil, malignant
shadow of terror is rising on the horizon as the new
century dawns. The Berlin Wall was the symbol of
ideological divisions during the second half of the
twentieth century. We must now, after 11 September,
tear down the wall of terrorism and intolerance that a
few people wish to raise to divide the world.
On one side of this new wall are those of us who
have built up and believe in democracy with pluralism.
On the other side are those that wish despotically to
impose their beliefs, with no respect for the rule of law.
On one side of this new wall are those of us who
permit and encourage the freedom of worship and
expression. On the other side are those that do not
practice, permit or tolerate it. On one side of this wall
are those of us who every day try to create equality of
opportunities for all women. On the other side are
those that oppress and dominate them. On one side of
this wall are those of us who value freedom above all.
On the other side are the terrorists that wish to destroy
and restrict it.
Let there be no doubt that Bolivia will always be
on the side of democracy, freedom and tolerance. We
want a life in peace and harmony. This is why my
Government, without any hesitation, with total
conviction and in all forums, has expressed its full
support for the measures undertaken by the coalition
led by the United States Government after the attacks
that took the lives of thousands of innocent people, the
majority of whom were in this very city of New York.
Terrorism is to a large extent incubated in and fed
by the underground world of drug trafficking. We must
not accept that in attacking freedom, terrorism
disguises itself by putting forward political claims. We
cannot accept that drug traffickers, seeking to
undermine our democracies, drape themselves in the
mantle of legitimate social demands. It is clear that
terrorism and drug trafficking are Siamese twins and
enemies of the free democracies. This is why we must
combat each of them with the same vigour and
determination.
Bolivia, with all its limitations, is performing its
task in fighting drug trafficking. By the will of the
majority of the Bolivians, expressed through our own
national dialogue, guided by our own interests and
encouraged by our own public opinion, we are
irreversibly moving forward towards eradicating illegal
coca crops used to prepare cocaine and are entering
13

into the final stage of the Dignity Plan, whose purpose
is to remove Bolivia from the drug circuit.
But the work is not finished. International
solidarity and support are now more important than
ever before. To complete the task, Bolivia needs
support on two levels. First of all, the international
community must realize that sustained support for
alternative development programmes is more necessary
for the countries that have eliminated the bulk of illegal
coca crops and cocaine, and in which many people
have been displaced as a result.
Bolivia has reduced more than 90 percent of its
illegal coca leaf production. However obvious it may
seem, this percentage must be repeated over and over,
because many international bureaucracies allocate
resources according to the size of the problem, which is
mistakenly defined as the volume of production of coca
leaves and cocaine, when the real economic problem
arises from the size of the reduction that has been
achieved and the proportional reduction of the income
generated by this activity. Bolivia deserves and needs
more support than ever before, because it has made
more progress than ever before.
Secondly, and of more relevance now, it is
necessary to provide access to markets; the opportunity
to fight for a place under the sun; and the right to work,
produce and sell. And here, at this point, the decision
by the United States and the European Union to open
up their markets to the products of alternative
development takes on critical and definitive
significance.
Bolivia is the least developed nation of South
America, the economy that is most open the region and
the only country that has achieved such a dramatic
reduction in such a poisonous and harmful product as
cocaine, within so short a time. For these three reasons,
we feel that we have every right to call for access to
markets through free trade — triply free trade: free
from tariffs, free from subsidies and free from non-
tariff measures.
We need free trade, the triply free trade that
applies to sectors such as telecommunications,
banking, computers and turbines, must also apply to
agriculture, textiles and leather. Unfortunately, these
last three labour-intensive sectors are governed by
nineteenth-century rules in the midst of the third
millennium.
In Bolivia we are moving forward with
decentralized and participatory programmes on health
and education. An educated and vaccinated citizen who
does not have a market, however, is not a full-fledged
citizen of the present-day world of ours. In Bolivia we
have straightened out and opened up our economy, but
we have not seen full reciprocity in the developed
world or on the part of our neighbours.
In Bolivia we have almost entirely eliminated the
production of cocaine, which however harmful it might
be, was an export product that was not subject to
subsidies, barriers or tariffs. This is why we require
access to markets to guarantee the completion of the
Dignity Plan and avoid frustrating the will of our
citizens, who have assumed the challenge of moving
from illegal activities to legitimate work, without,
however, having achieved the same access to the
market.
On the threshold of the twenty-first century, in
the midst of a severe economic and political crisis that
affects all the countries of the region, Bolivia is facing
another challenge that can decisively change its future.
In the few years since the work on the most important
gas pipeline of South America was completed,
Bolivia’s natural gas reserves grew exponentially, and
have made my country a significant player in the
hemisphere-wide market. We are now serving a
growing part of the energy demands of Brazil, and we
firmly intend to go on from here to reach the markets
of the Pacific, Mexico and the United States.
The tragic events of 11 September saw to it that
energy and gas integration must be based on a long-
term vision that takes into account three elements:
extensive gas reserves, a reliable economy and a solid
democracy. Bolivia has these three elements. The
projects that are now being studied and negotiated will
transform the productive structure of my country,
propel the growth rates, reinforce our role as a hub and
the environmentally clean heart of the continent, while
expanding our role and presence on the Pacific.
Bolivia will thus take another step on the march
that it began more than 120 years ago to return to the
sea of our ancestors.
Bolivia thus will reassert its unflinching
determination to regain its status as a maritime nation,
something with which we were born into independent
life.
14

Bolivia supports the struggle against terrorism
and for freedom. My country, more than any other
country, is making a gigantic effort to fight the ally of
terrorism — that is, drug trafficking. Given this effort,
given our determination to be open, and given the need
to fight poverty, my country calls for access to markets.
Bolivia will play a central role in working
towards reliable gas and energy integration in the
twenty-first century.
Finally, we realize that the long struggle for
freedom and the fight against terrorism is just
beginning and will end only when all the citizens of the
world, men and women alike, will be entitled to vote,
to elect, to offer their opinions and to profess their
faith, to move about freely and, above all, to live free
from fear and terror. The United Nations must be the
place where the world comes together to walk down
this shared path. And together we will build this road
towards integration and peace, as these times demand.






"
56,2001,BRN,"﻿On behalf of
His Majesty’s Government, I should like to express
once again my warmest congratulations to the
President on his election and our appreciation to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, President of
the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I would
also like to congratulate the Secretary-General on his
re-election. We are extremely pleased that he is
continuing to serve the United Nations. The award of
this year’s Nobel Peace Prize is a fine tribute to his
work and to the United Nations agencies and workers
in the field, who have served us all with such
dedication to the principles of the Charter.
Sadly, of course, this comes at a time when their
work is perhaps more crucial than ever before. The
atrocities committed in the United States on 11
September have rightly received the absolute
condemnation of all civilized people. There is no
justification for terrorism. As we have stated both
individually and in our regional associations, Brunei
Darussalam will continue to do all it can to work
closely with the United States and all members of the
Security Council to play its part in overcoming the
direct challenge that terrorism poses to the proper
conduct of international affairs.
The existence of terrorism is, however, a grim
reminder that the United Nations agenda, set over the
last half of the twentieth century, has yet to be
completed. There are many unwelcome legacies from
the past 50 years. Though none justify acts of terror,
many offer justification for deep resentment and
profound despair. Perhaps the most apparent of all at
this time is the situation in Palestine, where the justice
implicit in the Security Council’s resolutions on
Palestine is still denied to what is now a third
generation of Palestinians. In this respect, we welcome
the recognition given by many world leaders, including
the President of the United States and the Prime
Minister of the United Kingdom, to the principle of a
Palestinian State. Brunei Darussalam hopes that all
concerned and interested parties involved in the Middle
East peace process will act with urgency in order to
bring this about.
As we all know, dispelling feelings of past
injustice is an extremely difficult task. In essence, we
believe it must involve new approaches to security. We
believe all members of all regional associations have a
crucial role in this. Brunei Darussalam is trying to do
this through the Association of South-East Asian
Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum in an approach that
has been taking shape over nearly a decade now. This
involves all the nations of South-East Asia and our
partners in North America, East Asia, Europe and
Oceania. We seek common understandings through
consultation and various confidence-building measures.
Members have recognized the complex nature of
modern conflict. They have accepted that its roots are
often deep and intricately entwined. As elsewhere in
the world, it can be the result of long-standing
territorial claims, centuries-old animosities and
instinctive suspicions or conflicting ideologies. Or it
can be as basic as local land disputes or simple lack of
basic resources.
Whatever the cause, however, the members
believe the Forum is seeing signs of success. This year,
for example, it has been able to move things another
stage forward and is now looking into the very
challenging area of preventive diplomacy. In short, the
members see dialogue and consultation not as a series
of meetings but as a process. As such, it may never
end. In fact, in the long run, the process itself may
indeed become the solution.
That, we think, is the framework within which the
ideas expressed at the Millennium Summit can be
pursued successfully. In short, we believe that the key
to security today is the capacity to think locally,
regionally and globally at the same time. To us this
means that a positive, forward-looking United Nations
is crucial. It is here that all these thoughts can truly
come together. It is here that all nations can renew and
strengthen the tolerance and friendship that are the real
building blocks of security.
"
56,2001,TCD,"﻿The
Government and the people of Chad were profoundly
shocked and saddened by the horrendous attacks on the
United States of America that took place on 11
September 2001 in New York and Washington. I would
like to take this opportunity to convey once again the
sincere condolences of the Government of Chad to the
leaders of that friendly country and to the families of
the innocent victims.
Those extremely barbaric attacks demonstrate
how urgently necessary it is for the international
community to move beyond the intentions expressed in
the various agreements on terrorism and agree on the
implementation of a genuine common plan of action to
eradicate terrorism totally and to free our world from
the suffering to which it is subjected as a result of
extremism and fanaticism in all their forms. We must
work together to preserve peace and understanding
among peoples for the sake of mankind’s future and all
those who comprise it — Jews, Muslims, Christians
and others.
While vigorously stressing that nothing can
justify terrorism, the Republic of Chad would
nonetheless like to share with the Assembly some
thoughts prompted by the serious situation facing the
world.
Terrorist bases are found on every continent, and
the struggle against this scourge involves every
religious community. It is for this reason that we must
denounce the equation that is being made between
terrorism and a given religion. It is unacceptable for
certain media to perpetuate that equation in world
opinion, thereby inciting hatred and exclusion. The war
against terrorism must therefore be global and
multidimensional in nature. It must be the subject of
genuine cooperation among all peace- and justice-
loving States, and it must take place within the most
appropriate international framework, namely, the
United Nations.
This worldwide struggle need not necessarily be
military to be effective. It must go hand in hand with
economic measures to end the poverty and injustice
evident in our world. We must also act on the political
and diplomatic level to settle crisis situations and to
identify, try and punish those truly guilty of terrorist
acts and their accomplices.
Not long after the holding of the Millennium
Summit and the Durban Conference against racism,
and just before the high-level International Conference
on Financing for Development, scheduled for 2002, we
must unfortunately once again deplore the injustice,
poverty and suffering endured by the overwhelming
majority of the world’s peoples. In the course of our
many international meetings, we have constantly said
that the world needs more solidarity and that the
wealthier countries must expand their financial efforts
to contribute to the economic and social development
of the neediest peoples. In saying that we are not
asking for charity, but rather for realizing the legitimate
right of those peoples to development. Alas, the real
state of affairs falls far short of our hopes.
17

Poverty continues to grow in the world, and the
future of the world’s poor is undermined by the plight
of their children. Hundreds of millions of those
children work in inhuman conditions in order to
survive. They are left to their miserable fate in the
streets, subject to violence, drugs and prostitution,
whose corollary is AIDS. The situation is all the more
appalling given that, despite promises to reduce or
cancel the debt of poor countries, that debt continues to
grow, its burden hampering economic growth. At the
same time, some financial speculators can make tens of
billions of dollars in a single financial market
transaction — 10, or even 20, times the amount of
recent years’ generous debt write-offs.
How can our world continue to profess respect
for human rights while allowing those in the North and
South who benefit from the global system that
generates such poverty and all the injustices
exacerbated by globalization? What meaning do human
rights have for people who do not even have access to
the basic right to feed themselves? Can we therefore
continue to dream of a better world knowing that the
rich countries are continuing to cut back their
development assistance?
It is therefore inconceivable to us to hope to fight
terrorism without the genuine solidarity of the rich
countries with the neediest. Yes, in this troubled world
in which the international community is threatened by
major conflict, it would not be out of place to reaffirm
our desire to see the emergence of genuine solidarity
among peoples and nations in the form of sound and
mutually advantageous cooperation in order to redress
these injustices, which are, I stress, the main breeding
grounds of terrorism.
In order to address all the challenges posed by
this difficult world, my country, Chad, knows that it
must rely above all on its own capacities if it is to
occupy its rightful place in international life and to
make its modest contribution to the building of a better
world. That is the underlying message of the
unrelenting struggle waged by President Idriss Deby
since 1 December 1990 to establish a pluralistic
democracy in Chad, the guarantee of sustainable
development in peace and stability.
I wish to state today that my country recently
reached a decisive stage in the consolidation of that
pluralistic democracy through the presidential election
of 20 May. That election, the second of its kind in the
history of Chad, involved seven competing candidates
and resulted in the election of Mr. Idriss Deby, the
outgoing President, to a second five-year term. It took
place in total transparency, as attested by national and
international observers. Moreover, the Chadian
Government attaches great importance to the
legislative elections to be held in 2002, with the
assistance of the international community.
On the economic level, since 1995 Chad has
followed a recovery strategy intended to lay the basis
for sustainable economic and social development.
Thorough reforms have been undertaken to improve
and stabilize public finance, to correct external
imbalances and to launch lasting growth. These actions
require an effective anti-poverty policy, with respect to
which Chad, through me, expresses its gratitude to the
international community for its support, in particular at
the fourth Geneva round table of 1998 on the
development of Chad and at the sectoral meeting and
the mid-term review meeting of 2000.
Furthermore, following lengthy and heated
discussion, the oil project has been finalized and is
operating well. Chad is now vesting great hope in its
effects and looks forward to using its resources to
finance its poverty reduction strategy. In that regard, I
would recall that, for the first time in the history of
petroleum exploitation, legislation has been enacted to
guarantee transparency in revenue management and to
reserve a portion of the profit for local communities in
the producing region and their future generations.
Along with these domestic efforts, Chad will
continue to work tirelessly for subregional and regional
integration in Africa. The challenges facing the modern
world require all nations to pool their means and
efforts in great economic, monetary and cultural
groupings. Even if the international situation should
become favourable and the industrialized countries
should choose to heed the voice of Africa, we believe
that it is up to Africans ourselves, first and foremost, to
build our continent.
The launching in July 2001 in Lusaka of the
process of establishing the organs of the African Union
opened encouraging prospects for the achievement of
the legitimate aspirations of the African peoples to
peace, security and well-being in a much fairer world.
The African peoples are convinced that only a genuine
union will allow Africa to address its challenges and to
18

extricate itself from the economic stagnation and
violence that plague it.
Civil war and violence of all sorts, generated by
injustice and poverty, are found throughout the world
and on every continent. Their proliferation and extent
are deeply worrisome, especially since they are fuelled
and perpetuated by certain countries that place their
own interests above those of the peace and stability of
nations. What can we say about the hesitation of
certain countries to participate actively or morally in
prevention, management, settlement or peacekeeping
operations? In our opinion, it is equally unthinkable to
seek to combat terrorism while allowing crises that
feed it to persist.
With respect to such crises, allow me to refer to
certain conflicts situations that are of particular
concern to my country, Chad.
Central Africa, which in recent years has become
a theatre of political and tribal tensions, has ultimately
become aware of its situation in the international
landscape. It has therefore resolutely committed itself
on the path to ensuring the creation of improved
security conditions. In that regard, we must commend
the efforts of the international mediators and those
statesmen who have personally and effectively
contributed to defusing a number of hotbeds of tension
in that part of the continent.
However, while we may welcome the restoration
of peace in Congo Brazzaville, the same is not yet true
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where,
regrettably, war continues to claim innocent victims.
We hope that the inter-Congolese dialogue begun in
Addis Ababa will result in a peaceful settlement to that
fratricidal conflict, which has gone on too long.
We also certainly welcome the stabilization of the
situation in the Central African Republic, but recent
events have revealed the precariousness of the
situation. In this regard, Chad reaffirms through me
that it will tolerate no destabilization of that fraternal
country through its borders and will always do its
utmost to promote understanding and concord among
its Central African brothers. It also calls on the
international community to assist that neighbouring
country in the restoration of lasting peace.
In Burundi, although armed confrontations
continue to occur, we welcome the establishment of a
union Government and hail the tireless work done by
President Nelson Mandela as facilitator to ensure that
the current negotiation process leads to national peace
and concord in the country.
As to Angola, the Government of the Republic of
Chad reaffirms its support for the legitimate
Government in its efforts to achieve peace and security.
In West Africa, the agreement on voluntary
disarmament signed under the auspices of the United
Nations Mission in Sierra Leone has yielded tangible
results and is now the only proper course for resolving
the crisis in that country. We encourage the Economic
Community of West African States to continue to work
to restore lasting pace to that subregion.
As to the Horn of Africa, Chad encourages any
initiative on the part of the belligerent parties to bring
about national reconciliation in Somalia on the basis of
the Arta agreements. Likewise, the Chadian
Government welcomes the observance of the ceasefire
between Ethiopia and Eritrea, and exhorts these two
fraternal countries to build peace along their common
border. As to the embargo on Libya, Chad unreservedly
supports its immediate lifting, without conditions and
in full, because it unjustly penalizes the fraternal
Libyan people.
In the Middle East, it is time for the tragedy of
the Palestinian people, which has lasted for more than
half a century, to be brought to a peaceful, fair and
lasting conclusion. It is more urgent and necessary than
ever for pressure of all kinds to be brought to bear on
the State of Israel to induce it to fulfil the terms of the
resolutions adopted by the Security Council on the
Palestinian question, in particular resolutions 242
(1967) and 338 (1973). The credibility of the
international community depends on the ability of the
Palestinians to enjoy all their rights, including the right
to an independent and sovereign State.
Turning to another injustice in the world, namely,
the inhuman embargo imposed on Iraq, my
Government calls for its immediate and unconditional
lifting, because it no longer has any justification. As to
the injustice committed by our Organization vis-à-vis
the Republic of China on Taiwan, the time has come to
set things right, in order to allow that country, whose
human, economic and political weight is unquestioned,
to occupy its legitimate place in the family of nations,
which is to say in the United Nations, following its
recent admission to the World Trade Organization,
which we welcome.
19

On this solemn occasion, we cannot fail to refer
to another undemocratic and unjust feature of the
structures of our Organization. In this regard, I would
like to recall in the strongest terms that Chad still
adheres to the common African position on the
restructuring of the United Nations, including the
enlargement and reform of the Security Council, so as
to ensure fair representation for all regions of the
world.
Before I conclude, allow me to extend to you, Sir,
the warm congratulations of the Chadian delegation on
your well-deserved election to lead the fifty-sixth
regular session of the General Assembly. I am
convinced that your personal and professional qualities
will guarantee the successful conduct of our work.
Allow me also to convey the sincere thanks of my
delegation to your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for
the tact and wisdom with which he conducted the work
of the previous session.
I wish lastly to convey the Republic of Chad’s
sincere congratulations to our brother Kofi Annan,
Secretary-General of this Organization, on the renewed
trust that the international community has just placed
in him for a second term, and also on the Nobel Peace
Prize that was awarded to him and to the United
Nations. The dedication of the Secretary-General to the
cause of peace, progress and development has been
thoroughly demonstrated. We therefore wish to assure
him of the support and encouragement of the
Government of the Republic of Chad throughout his
new term in office.





"
56,2001,LUX,"﻿First, I should like to express our very sincere
condolences and sense of compassion to the families of
the victims of the tragic accident that occurred this
morning, as well as to the authorities of the City and
State of New York, which have been so seriously
affected by the terrorist attacks on 11 September.
I should, however, like to congratulate our
President, Mr. Han Seung-soo. I am convinced that
with the cooperation of Member States, he will be able
to conduct this Assembly in a way to ensure that it
responds ambitiously and effectively to the challenges
before it.
President Holkeri conducted the Millennium
Assembly deftly, wisely exercising his presidential
authority and evincing a soothing sense of humour. We
would like to thank him for that.
Our Secretary-General tirelessly continues his
work to promote international peace and security.
Member States wish to thank him for the imagination
and wisdom shown as he discharges his lofty
responsibility, and they have renewed his term of
office. International public opinion has expressed its
gratitude for his exceptional commitment by giving
him, together with the United Nations, the Nobel Peace
Prize. We would like to associate ourselves with that
tribute. We congratulate him and wish him the best in
his difficult work at the head of the Organization.
In the course of this first session of the twenty-
first century, the General Assembly has begun its work
under the sign of terrorism. The indescribable crime
that was committed on 11 September 2001 against the
United States of America and its citizens, male and
female, represents a breakdown in international
relations. It was not only America that was targeted by
this infamous attack against the World Trade Center
towers  it was our lifestyle in an open, democratic,
tolerant and multicultural society to which the broad
majority of countries and peoples represented here
aspire. That is unbearable to terrorists.
17

Civilian airplanes have become guided missiles
through blind and murderous terrorism, and as a result
we all feel attacked. We can't call this a confrontation
here between civilizations, combat between North and
South, between religions. The perpetrators of the
repugnant attack of 11 September wish to deny by their
act the very values that form the basis of the
international community, which we have endeavoured
to build for the past 50 years through the United
Nations and its multilateral system.
The subsequent discussion in public opinion has
shown that our societies do not yet know each other
well enough. Ignorance leads to distrust and even
hostility, promoting a chilling self-absorption.
Dialogue among civilizations, as promoted and
practised by our Organization, must now more than
ever be at the forefront of our considerations.
Having expressed its compassion for the innocent
victims of those cowardly attacks, the international
community must now react with determination to
ensure that the perpetrators receive the punishment
they deserve and to defend itself in such a way as to
prevent such acts in the future. I should like to take this
opportunity to reaffirm our solidarity with the United
States of America in its exercise of its legitimate right
to self-defence.
Two days ago, the current President of the
European Union, Mr. Louis Michel, gave a detailed
description of the measures and initiatives taken by the
15 member States to combat the scourge of terrorism.
Luxembourg is participating unreservedly in this joint
effort.
Only through coordinated and interdisciplinary
work will we be able to fight all forms of terrorism.
Our response must be commensurate with the threat,
while respecting the fundamental freedoms of the
citizen  a principle that underlies our civilization.
With regard to the situation in Afghanistan, we
must work under the auspices of the United Nations
with a view to promoting the emergence of a stable and
legitimate Government that is representative of the
Afghan population as a whole. Such a Government
must respect the human rights of the Afghan people
and develop good-neighbourly relations with all the
countries of the region. In that context, I should like to
welcome in particular the activities of the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General for
Afghanistan, Mr. Brahimi.
As soon as its objective has been achieved, the
international community, through the concerted efforts
of the United Nations, the International Committee of
the Red Cross and other international organizations,
should set up an ambitious programme that is both
political and humanitarian, with a view to helping to
reconstruct Afghanistan and to ensure its integration
within a stabilized region. Such an effort will require
intensified political dialogue with all of the countries
of the region.
At this time, the provision of assistance to the
civilian population in Afghanistan and to the refugees
across its borders is a matter of priority. My country
has already raised almost 7 million euros for that
purpose as part of a comprehensive effort within the
European Union amounting to more than 320 million
euros.
Although there are no grounds for making a
direct connection between the events of 11 September
and the situation in the Middle East, the situation there
is becoming increasingly worrying. We note that,
unfortunately, the fabric that was woven during 10
years of mediation efforts and that was almost
completed at Taba is now unravelling before our eyes.
During my recent visit to the region, I noted the extent
to which the peace process, which has been deadlocked
for far too long, is suffering from the absence of any
real prospects and from increasing distrust among the
parties.
That is why, together with our colleagues from
the European Union, we are stepping up our efforts to
convince the parties that only the cessation of violence
and the recognition of two States will make it possible
for negotiations to resume that can lead to a just and
lasting peace in the region, on the basis of the
establishment of a Palestinian State and the right of
Israel to live in peace and security. The European
Union stands ready to provide a framework for this
process, in cooperation with the United States of
America and the Arab States of the region, and to assist
the parties with a view to facilitating the reconciliation
that is necessary.
In the meantime, the United Nations will
tirelessly pursue its efforts to achieve international
peace and stability. In 2001, four reports of the
Secretary-General  dealing with peacekeeping,
humanitarian action, the prevention of conflict and the
follow-up to the Millennium Summit  have shown
18

the way forward. They show that it is necessary for the
international community to be steadfast in its
commitment to the prevention and management of
conflict.
Any hesitation or fleeting expression of
disinterest might risk encouraging elements that may
want to aggressively defend their own interests without
regard for the consequences at the national or
international level. Europe has witnessed such dramatic
chains of events, particularly in the Balkans, and we
can only feel a sense of humility when considering
their disastrous effects.
If this year the United Nations has not been on
the front line in the Balkans, it has been working hard
in the area of peacekeeping. I would like to make two
comments about these operations. First, we note that
there has been a considerable improvement in the
quality of their management, following the conclusions
of the Brahimi report. Secondly, there has been an
international commitment to deal with hotbeds of
tension as diverse and complex as those of Kosovo,
East Timor, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Sierra Leone.
The balance sheet is relatively encouraging.
Kosovo will soon be holding elections that will have
important consequences for the future of the province.
The United Nations operation in East Timor can,
perhaps, be viewed as a clear success for international
action. Attempts to restructure peacekeeping operations
have been promoted through careful consideration in
the Secretariat, the Security Council and the General
Assembly, based upon an outstanding follow-up report.
The complexity of crisis situations often, of
course, demands a prudent response, even when real
progress has been made, as is the case in Sierra Leone.
It is even more important to document international
determination through clear mandates that allow for a
strong response. We believe that the inclusion of troop-
contributing countries in the decision-making process
is essential. The increasingly integrated approach that
has been chosen, as illustrated by the United Nations
Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and the
United Nations Transitional Administration in East
Timor, is designed to ensure a logical succession
between the phases of prevention, peacekeeping and,
finally, consolidation, reconstruction and development.
One of the most urgent tasks of our Organization
is to provide immediate assistance for civilian
populations that are the victims of natural disasters or
crises brought about by human intervention.
Luxembourg attaches particular importance to such
needs, and we are endeavouring to support United
Nations offices in this physically and morally
demanding task. Since the fall of 2000, we have been
coordinating, on an informal basis, the donor countries
in New York, and our delegation takes pleasure in
noting the dedication of the competent officials and
authorities who head these services. I would like to
assure the Assembly that my country is clearly aware
of the need to protect, and ensure the safety of,
personnel.
Humanitarian action, prevention, ceasefire
agreements and peace-building activities hardly
constitute the entire agenda of the international
community. A functioning democracy is a major asset
in progress towards development, as I have already
emphasized. I need only reaffirm the importance of
national efforts to combat corruption and foster the
establishment, within our societies, of the rule of law
based on an equitable and properly functioning legal
system.
My country welcomes the efforts under way
within the United Nations to put an end to impunity
and to ensure that those responsible for committing
crimes against humanity and other atrocities answer for
their actions within an international criminal
jurisdiction.
A special tribunal to judge crimes committed
during the course of the civil war is in the process of
being established in Sierra Leone, and Luxembourg has
made a financial contribution to its establishment. In
Cambodia, a law to establish a tribunal to consider the
atrocities and genocide perpetrated under the
dictatorship of the Khmer Rouge is now in force, and
we must assess its compatibility with the memorandum
proposed by the United Nations. The Tribunals in The
Hague and Arusha have stepped up their work, and, for
the first time, a former head of State is awaiting his
trial in prison. We welcome these developments, as
well as those who have joined us in the group of
countries that have ratified the Rome Statute of the
future International Criminal Court. The citizens of
Luxembourg would be pleased to see that convention
enter into force as soon as possible and acceded to by a
broad majority of States.
19

In September 2000, heads of State and
Government met here in New York. Since then, the
Millennium Declaration has underpinned the actions of
the United Nations and of States at the national level.
Together with its European partners, Luxembourg has
affirmed its dedication to the commitments entered into
there.
I conclude by citing two facts that illustrate the
awareness of my country's Government of the
responsibilities its shares with all here in preparing for
the future of coming generations. First, official
development assistance from Luxembourg has reached
0.71 per cent of our gross national product; the
Government has decided to raise it to 1 per cent by
2005. I have also submitted to my country's Chamber
of Deputies Luxembourg's first nomination to serve as
a non-permanent member of the Security Council.




"
56,2001,GMB,"﻿On behalf of my
delegation, I should like to present our heartfelt
condolences to the grieving families following the
tragic plane accident yesterday.
Let me at the outset congratulate Mr. Han Seung-
soo on his unanimous election to preside over the fifty-
sixth session of the United Nations General Assembly.
With his wealth of experience and wisdom we have no
doubt that our deliberations will always be crowned
with success. He may rest assured that in carrying out
the important mandate entrusted to him, he will not
find the cooperation of the Gambian delegation
wanting. On behalf of my delegation I should also like
to pay a special tribute to his predecessor for a job well
done.
As for our indefatigable Secretary-General, I add
my voice to those of previous speakers in
congratulating him, and the United Nations, on
winning the Nobel Peace Prize. In addition to that, my
delegation commends him for his effective and
inspiring leadership, in turning the United Nations
around in such a way that much of the hope that was
lost has since been restored. Mr. Secretary-General,
you deserve our respect and admiration.
The circumstances in which we are meeting this
time are far different from previous sessions for
reasons well known to all of us. The terrorist attacks on
New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on 11
September took the whole world by surprise because of
their cataclysmic proportions. Nothing can ever justify
such barbaric acts. Unfortunately, like so many
countries present here today, we too were bereaved
following the attack on the World Trade Center. I
should like at this juncture to express profound
gratitude to President George W. Bush for his kind
remarks. The Government and people of the Gambia,
as well as the families concerned, are deeply moved by
the President’s thoughtfulness. All of this shows that
terrorism has no boundaries and, worse still, it has no
respect for the sanctity of life. It is incumbent upon all
of us therefore not to offer sanctuary to any terrorists
or their sponsors.
In the Gambia, His Excellency the President
Alhaji Dr. Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, declared three days
of national mourning and requested all mosques and
churches to pray for the deceased in solidarity with the
friendly people of the United States and their
Government. While we continue to pray and mourn,
individually and collectively, we in the Gambia
subscribe unreservedly to Security Council resolutions
1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001), of 12 and 28 September
2001, respectively. Similarly, we welcome the adoption
of the Dakar Declaration on terrorism by the
Conference of African Heads of State and Government,
held in Dakar, Senegal, on 17 October 2001.
Having said that, I would, however, hasten to
point out that it is one thing to adopt resolutions and
declarations but it is quite another to implement them
fully. It goes without saying that the fight against
international terrorism is neither easy nor the business
of a select group of countries alone. Certainly not. This
international scourge can only be dealt with effectively
through concerted international effort. However, it will
serve no useful purpose to request Member States to
report on measures taken in the fight against terrorism
when the requisite means to do so are not available.
This will be a long and difficult engagement, but at the
same time it is not an impossible task. In the process,
no country should be excluded. Consequently, as a first
step, the Security Council should inquire of Member
States what they need, at the national level, to equip
them in the fight against terrorism, especially in terms
of training and logistics. In our view, that is the priority
14

of priorities, because no category of countries can be
considered safe unless and until all categories of
countries are seen to be safe.
Let me mention en passant one very important
point. The Gambia, where I come from, is
predominantly Muslim, but we do not at all subscribe
to the misleading concept that the struggle against
terrorism is one between Islam and Christianity. For
that reason we in the Gambia are committed to signing
and ratifying all the relevant United Nations
conventions against terrorism.
Allow me now to dwell a little on some domestic
issues. As was widely reported all over the world, the
presidential elections that were held in the Gambia on
18 October 2001 received the unanimous endorsement
of the entire international community as free, fair and
transparent. All international observers present in the
country expressed the same views. The 1996 elections
were also free, fair and transparent, but we were given
a mere pass. In the 2001 elections we passed with
flying colours. As of right, therefore, we expect our
principal partners in development, who were still
sceptical in 1996, now to show the way forward by
embracing the Government and people of the Gambia
in a new spirit of solidarity geared towards a fresh and
reinvigorated partnership. We have kept our part of the
bargain as a nation. We have delivered what was
expected of us — in fact, we did more and better than
expected. What happened immediately after the
election results were announced is ample
demonstration of political maturity. Let me give a
graphic illustration of what I am talking about by
borrowing a paragraph or two from His Excellency
President Jammeh’s victory statement.
“Fellow Gambians, [...] I would want to
enjoin you all after the celebrations to put the
campaign and all the euphoria and the differences
and misunderstandings of politics behind us and
come together as one people to work with my
Government, supporters and non-supporters alike,
to further develop this country.”
President Jammeh then went on to thank the principal
leaders of the opposition for their courage and maturity
displayed in extending their congratulations to him in a
telephone conversation. The President then said:
“The gesture was indeed most welcome and I
would want to restate my expectation that with
the elections now behind us, we would put our
differences of political ideology aside and work
together as members of the same family to pursue
the development agenda we in this country have
set for ourselves, in the best interest of our
beloved people.”
That indeed was the icing on the cake. It can now
be proclaimed without any fear of contradiction that
the Gambia, despite all the odds, is consolidating its
position among the leading democracies in Africa, and
indeed in the whole world.
Elsewhere on the African continent, while we
cannot claim that the same pattern of free and fair
elections and the rule of law prevail, we can note with
satisfaction that the signs are encouraging, although a
lot more remains to be done. In neighbouring Sierra
Leone we commend the United Nations Mission in
Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) for what has been achieved
so far. As elections are fast approaching it becomes
even more urgent to accelerate the process of
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration.
The importance of a regional approach to conflict
resolution cannot be overemphasized. We will have to
sound our own trumpet by commending the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for the
preponderant role that it has played in the quest for a
lasting solution to the problems in the Mano River
area. With regard to another neighbouring country,
Guinea-Bissau, the Gambia, in its capacity as
coordinator of the Group of Friends of Guinea-Bissau,
would like to launch an appeal to the donor community
to cooperate closely with the Group with a view to
convening the long overdue round-table donors’
conference. As stated in the Fall report following a
mission to West Africa some time ago, certain
countries in transition, such as Guinea-Bissau, need
special and urgent attention. I am referring to the
important report by Assistant Secretary-General
Ibrahima Fall. We are not done with that report yet, for
it raises such serious issues as the regional approach to
conflict resolution.
We are also following very closely the situation
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is
gratifying to note that the Security Council adopted
resolution 1376 (2001) by which it gave the green light
for the launching of phase III of the deployment of the
United Nations Organization Mission in the
15

Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC). My
delegation also encourages the parties concerned to
pursue the inter-Congolese dialogue with renewed
vigour and to cooperate with the Facilitator. We are
saddened, however, by the illegal exploitation of
natural resources and other forms of wealth in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. There is obviously
a direct link between such practices and the
prolongation of the conflict. Still, in the Great Lakes
region, we pay a special tribute to former President
Mandela for his laudable efforts to bring peace to
Burundi. Concerning the situation in Angola, my
delegation continues to believe that UNITA’s ability to
wage war must be further reduced through tighter
sanctions. In this context we note with satisfaction the
extension of the mandate of the Monitoring
Mechanism.
Turning to other parts of the continent, my
delegation welcomes the decision of the Security
Council to terminate the sanctions that were imposed
on the Sudan. We are also calling on the Council to
make a bold move and lift the sanctions imposed on
Libya. The international community demanded that the
Libyan authorities hand over the Lockerbie suspects for
trial in exchange for the lifting of sanctions. The
international community must now honour its
obligations and stop moving the goal-posts.
Outside Africa we also continue to express
concern about a number of conflict situations.
Seemingly, the most intractable of the lot is the
situation in the Middle East, and, notably, the
Palestinian problem. There can be no lasting peace in
the Middle East without resolving the Palestinian
question. We in the Gambia have always held the view
that, while recognizing the right of Israel to exist
within secure borders, we also believe that the relevant
United Nations resolutions on the Arab-Israeli conflict
should be implemented, culminating in the creation of
an independent Palestinian state.
In the situation between Kuwait and Iraq, we in
the Gambia have always maintained that the
international community should, as a matter of
urgency, find ways of alleviating the suffering of the
Iraqi people. But at the same time, the Iraqi leadership
must be accountable for the Kuwaiti prisoners of war
and missing persons. The families of the prisoners of
war and missing persons have also been suffering for
too long and, therefore, we call upon the Iraqi
Government to respect and comply with the relevant
Security Council resolutions in order to achieve peace
and stability in the Gulf region.
It is an irony that long after the end of the cold
war, the situation in the Korean peninsula remains
basically the same. We in the Gambia were, however,
very much encouraged by the visit to North Korea of
President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea in June last
year. It is only through dialogue and the exchange of
such high-level visits that the peaceful unification of
the Korean peninsula will be achieved.
Similarly, it is our fervent hope that one day the
Republic of China on Taiwan and the People’s
Republic of China will unite but, as the saying goes, let
us put first things first. As clearly stated by my
delegation during the meeting of the General
Committee, the Government of the Gambia would like
to reiterate that the exceptional situation of the
Republic of China on Taiwan needs to be reconsidered
by this body. Only a few days ago, the Republic of
China on Taiwan was admitted to the World Trade
Organization (WTO). That is no mean achievement
and, therefore, my delegation would like to take this
opportunity to congratulate the Government and the 23
million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan. We
in the Gambia have no doubt that they will make
constructive contributions to the work of the WTO. It
will be recalled that the Republic of China on Taiwan
is now the world’s seventeenth largest economy in
terms of gross national product (GNP) and the fifteenth
most important trading nation. Considering that the
Republic of China on Taiwan possesses the world’s
third largest foreign reserves, in addition to its strategic
position as the sixteenth largest foreign direct investor,
it does not make much sense to continue to exclude it
from the United Nations. Politics aside, the Republic of
China on Taiwan has a lot to offer the international
community. For instance, in the crucial area of
information and communication technologies (ICT),
the real revolution of our times, the Republic of China
on Taiwan is in the vanguard. We all know that the
issue of ICT is among the top priorities of the United
Nations and we therefore look forward to the special
event on Tuesday, 20 November, when the Secretary-
General will launch the United Nations Information
and Communication Technologies (ICT) Task Force.
How will we be able to benefit from the expertise of
the Republic of China on Taiwan when it is excluded
from the work of the United Nations?
16

The Republic of China on Taiwan is active in
other important areas as well, especially development
cooperation, by providing experts and through
international financial institutions, and, likewise, in the
humanitarian field by providing disaster relief to
countries in need. The case of the Republic of China on
Taiwan is unique. It is exceptional and should be
treated as such, quite apart from observing the
principle of universality.
Another country which has much to offer the
international community is Cuba, ranging from
medicine to sports. After more than three decades, the
sanctions imposed on Cuba should now be lifted. These
sanctions can no longer be justified; in fact, they are
counterproductive.
Prior to the tragic events of 11 September, we had
already identified a number of areas for increased
international cooperation within the framework of the
Millennium Declaration. Foremost among these is the
eradication of poverty. It is made a priority of priorities
in the Millennium Declaration, if not the priority. In the
World Development Report 2000-2001 entitled
“Attacking poverty”, the President of the World Bank
in his foreword stated that “Poverty amid plenty is the
world’s greatest challenge.” We are also of the view
that poverty constitutes a serious threat to international
peace and security, knowing that 1.2 billion people live
on less than $1 a day. That is why our leaders
undertook to cut by half the proportion of people living
in extreme poverty by the year 2015. Of the 1.2 billion
who live on less than $1 a day, 300 million are in
Africa. Under these circumstances the New African
Initiative is indeed a timely response. We only hope
that unlike previous blueprints for Africa’s socio-
economic development, the New Initiative will not be
left to gather dust. It would appear for the first time,
that we, the Africans, are in the driver’s seat. That is a
clear demonstration of ownership and commitment.
Our principal partners in development should also
complement our efforts by providing the necessary
resources as a matter of urgency. The Economic
Commission for Africa should work closely with the
various regional economic groupings to ensure proper
and effective coordination. We are confident that the
momentum generated by the adoption of the New
African Initiative will be intensified with the
convening of the International Conference on
Financing for Development at the summit level in
Monterrey, Mexico, next year. That Conference will
provide a unique opportunity for the international
community to translate into reality the global solidarity
spelled out in the Millennium Declaration, especially in
such vital areas as official development assistance
(ODA), foreign direct investment (FDI) and debt
reduction, or outright cancellation in some cases, and
market access — to mention only a few.
Similarly, the World Summit on Sustainable
Development (Rio+10), to be held in South Africa next
year, will also provide a golden opportunity for
stocktaking, notably for a comprehensive review of the
implementation of Agenda 21.
All efforts geared towards the eradication of
poverty would be incomplete without addressing the
issue of food security. My delegation therefore looks
forward to the convening of the World Food Summit in
June next year. A related issue is health. We in West
Africa, particularly we in the Gambia, would like to
eradicate malaria as a matter of urgency and, as a first
step, our leaders have adopted the Rollback Malaria
Programme. We will need the support and solidarity of
the entire international community in this endeavour,
especially within the context of the Global Alliance for
Vaccines and Immunization.
With special reference to the least developed
countries, it will be recalled that the Third United
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries,
held recently, adopted yet another Programme of
Action for the decade 2001-2010 aimed essentially at
the eradication of poverty. We hope that the rest of the
donor community will support that Programme fully by
making available the resources necessary for its
implementation. In any poverty eradication
programme, the most vulnerable groups, that is, women
and children, should be given special attention. That is
why the Government of the Gambia remains committed
to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action,
including the further actions and initiatives that
emanated from the Beijing+5 Conference held last
June. The same applies to the Nairobi forward-looking
strategies for the advancement of women and all other
initiatives that promote the advancement of women and
the girl child. In fact, His Excellency President Yahya
Jammeh has now decided that all girls in the Gambia
from grades 1 to 12, in virtually all parts of the
country, will no longer pay school fees.
Finally, experience has shown that our collective
security can only be guaranteed if and when all
17

members of the comity of nations are equally
guaranteed freedom from want and freedom from fear.
That can be achieved only through genuine
international solidarity. The tendency to look the other
way when another needs a helping hand should be a
thing of the past. Each time in our history when we are
faced with major difficulties, we suddenly realize how
much we need one another. We close our ranks and
take up the challenges together. We are again at a
crossroads. That is why we are all here to renew faith
in multilateralism. There is no alternative to the United
Nations. We are now strengthened in our conviction
that our Organization is nowhere near being a “sunset”
Organization. It is a “sunrise” Organization. But it
should shine even brighter once the Security Council is
reformed to reflect the realities of the twenty-first
century. Unless that is done, the Security Council runs
the serious risk of becoming irrelevant because it is
anchored in the past. We do not want that to happen. It
is too vital an organ to be sidelined, but it must adapt
and adjust. It is time to move on. Let us be forward-
looking. Whatever the outcome may be, Africa must be
adequately represented.



"
56,2001,KNA,"﻿It gives me
great pleasure to convey to Mr. Han Seung-soo
heartfelt congratulations, on behalf of my delegation
and the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis, on his
accession to the honourable post of President of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
I would also like to congratulate his predecessor
on a job well done, especially during such an
exhausting period for the United Nations. The success
of the United Nations is built on the hard work of its
Members, and both the President and his predecessor
have shown dedication to the positive functioning of
this esteemed institution.
In the last decade, world leaders have been
working tirelessly in different forums to redefine and
address the myriad challenges that characterize the so-
called new order. This has placed a great premium on
the United Nations, which has provided an able
platform for exchanges of ideas, practical dialogue and
conflict resolution. My delegation is satisfied that
marked progress has been made in identifying many of
the critical issues. The United Nations deserves high
praise, and we commend Member States for their
willingness to use the diplomatic and political
resources of the Organization in the conduct of their
international relations.
The involvement of the United Nations in recent
times is a fitting backdrop for the decision that the
coming year will be designated the Year of Dialogue
among Civilizations. This is most timely, and it serves
as a revalidation of our belief that dialogue is a critical
ingredient in promoting partnership and improved
understanding among Governments and peoples.
Dialogue is the foundation of solid democracies,
strong people-centred institutions, civil societies and
sustainable human development. Dialogue is still that
very important catalyst which often staves off war and
conflict, enabling consensus and confidence-building
in an atmosphere of mutual respect and trust. Thus, it is
quite obvious why the Government of Saint Kitts and
Nevis supports this idea.
In a certain sense, a new world order dawned on
11 September 2001, when terrorism, in a most
outrageous form, reared its ugly head in the cities of
Washington and New York, in the United States of
America, with the loss of thousands of innocent lives.
Dialogue among members of the international
community rapidly spawned an anti-terrorism coalition
of countries, thereby defining the protagonists in this
unfolding new order. My country stands solidly with
this coalition, especially in pursuing the generally
agreed strategies to contain terrorism. Despite the
horrendous act of 11 September and subsequent
bioterrorism, life goes on, adjusted to a new reality.
Another opportunity where dialogue may prove
useful in advancing human security will come when
Governments meet at the International Conference on
Financing for Development in Monterrey, Mexico next
year. Saint Kitts and Nevis regards this as an important
occasion to promote the interests of all nations. But, we
are especially hopeful that this Conference will
embrace the aspirations and promote better
appreciation for the needs, vulnerabilities and special
circumstances of small economies in small island
developing States.
23

My Prime Minister has repeatedly urged the
international community to take a more unbiased look
at the peculiar situation of small, vulnerable
economies. This is not an appeal for international
charity, but a signal to promote the kind of realism
through which a Marshall Plan of commitment can be
devised to energize small, vulnerable economies so that
they can effectively participate in a globalized
economy.
Dialogue is important in building real
participatory democracies. But democracy among
nations is as crucial as democracy within nations.
When the people we serve feel that our actions as
leaders do not reflect their dreams, goals and
aspirations, they may use their democratic right to
effect change. We have a duty, therefore, to give loud
voices to their silent legitimate hopes. We must place
added value on the hopes and expectations of our
people in order to legitimize the concepts of
representative democracy.
It is within this context that I urge this body to
redouble its efforts in finding a solution to the
unfortunate stalemate that beleaguers relations between
the Chinese people across the Taiwan Straits. My
Government remains convinced that both sides of the
Taiwan Straits should become fully engaged in this
peaceful and non-coercive process without the
distraction of preconditions. It would lead to the
successful resolution of what appears to be a very
contentious issue. At the same time, we encourage the
United Nations to be vigilant and ready to assist where
possible or when required. Prior to the peaceful
settlement of their dispute, it is imperative that we
establish a mechanism by which the international
community can benefit more appropriately from the
proven expertise, technical know-how and skills of the
23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan.
We call on the United Nations to assist in the
resolution of the question of full inclusion of Cuba into
the affairs of the western hemisphere. Also, we urge
the people of Cuba, as we celebrate the Year of
Dialogue among Civilizations, to embrace the
challenge of ensuring that they can participate fully in
the community of nations.
Participatory democracy among nations must be
erected on the twin pillars of mutual respect and trust.
But trust wanes in the face of unilateral actions such as
threats made by the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries to
blacklist and impose sanctions on sovereign Caribbean
Governments, consequent upon the OECD countries’
misunderstanding of fiscal initiatives taken by
sovereign Caribbean Governments as a way to
underpin sustainable economic development.
As we celebrate the Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations, we urge Member States to resist the lure
of national paternalism and unilateral action as a means
of problem-solving. In a matter so crucial to the
economic future of Caribbean countries, it is
inconceivable that conclusions could have been
reached and decisions arrived at without the courtesy
of dialogue with the very countries against whom such
scathing indictments had been made. However, most
recently, wiser counsel has prevailed and, in a spirit of
dialogue and partnership, significant progress has been
made by means of a compromise agreement. The
Caribbean Community hails this agreement on offshore
fiscal initiatives as a step in the right direction. Such is
the power of dialogue among civilizations.
We imagine that the mechanisms of globalization,
if timely and equitably applied, can be productive,
inclusive, and improve lives. It must be emphasized
that, although small States may justifiably harbour
some apprehension about globalization, we do not
oppose it. On the contrary, we welcome the
opportunities to empower our citizens so that they may
compete successfully in a global marketplace, mindful
that empowerment and the ability to compete
successfully, however, require appropriate skill-sets,
academic resources and material tools. In order for
small States to benefit fully from the new economic
order, the global agenda must become a humane
agenda, sufficiently responsive to facilitate equitable
and affordable access to modern technology — that is
to say, technology that is appropriate and responsive to
the basic needs of poor communities and small States.
Without realism and a holistic approach in
examining the social and economic conditions within
small States, there is a potential for serious dislocation
when these States attempt to operate within the global
marketplace. As responsible Member States, we have a
genuine obligation to work towards improving the lives
of the disenfranchised. This, I am sure, is the main
reason we are here today. Therefore, we must continue
to right this important chapter in the development of
human security. We must also remain cognizant that, as
members of the global village, we have to discard old
24

suspicions and embrace new partnerships, dialogue and
diversity as necessary components of our
interdependence.
Partnership and understanding will prove
essential in our efforts to tackle common problems
such as drug trafficking and the pandemic of
HIV/AIDS. The special session on HIV/AIDS came at
an important juncture, and we urge Member States to
support the decisions that were taken. In small States,
like Saint Kitts and Nevis, the pandemic of HIV/AIDS
presents one of the most devastating challenges to the
development of human security, because such a disease
threatens to unravel the delicately woven balance of
social growth and economic potential.
Our people are at great risk, and the prospect of
losing decades of development and talented people to
this illness is amazingly real. On top of losing their
young and most productive people, Governments are
expected in turn to reallocate significant amounts of
already meagre resources from critical development
programs to provide costly care and treatment. We
salute the United States Government, the World Bank,
and others for their recent and important initiatives to
help fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the Caribbean
and we urge others to adopt similar initiatives.
We see what an important role dialogue is playing
in the hemispheric approach at the Organization of
American States (OAS) through the Multilateral
Evaluation Mechanism. This allows member
Governments to collaborate in the fight against drug
trafficking, in supply and demand initiatives and in the
implementation of national or shared strategies. We
believe this approach is useful, because it makes
common approaches more frequent, discourages
unilateral actions and allows member States to share
experiences on interdiction, the epidemiology of drug
abuse and other trends. The fight against drug
trafficking, you will agree, is a transnational one. We
cannot point fingers or apportion blame. We need to
take action.
Saint Kitts and Nevis welcomes the approach of
the OAS, which permits us in the Caribbean to work in
a multilateral framework to find common solutions.
Equally, such a mechanism focuses attention on the
root problems and encourages hemispheric partnership.
We hope that these kinds of approaches will become
integral components of problem solving at the United
Nations.
In closing, the past year was particularly eventful.
We began with the Millennium Summit and concluded
with the HIV/AIDS special session. In between, we
interacted on many contentious issues. It is my hope
that during the new year we can move forward with
renewed vigour, building on the hard work that our
predecessors left in our charge, and paving the way for
a brighter future for those to whom we will pass the
baton. Once again, we salute the President on behalf of
the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis.



"
56,2001,AND,"﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr.
Han Seung-soo on his election to the presidency of the
Assembly and to express our thanks to his predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri.

I would also like to congratulate the Secretary-
General, Kofi Annan, and the United Nations on their
well-deserved Nobel Peace Prize.

We are compelled to take up the events of 11
September and the actions initiated by our
Organization, starting with Security Council resolution
1373 (2001), at our discussions here today. I have
chosen to make my statement in a language not of my
country — English, the language of our host country
and city — in tribute to the United States, to the
American people and Government and to New York
City, which were harmed by the recent terrorist attacks.

We meet today almost two months after the
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in New York
City. The horror of this attack, the thousands dead: so
many terrible images have been seared into our
collective memory. And we remember also the
remarkable acts of courage and determination that
followed in the wake of this shameful crime.
That the attack took place here, in New York, the
seat of the United Nations, is both painful and sad. For
New York is an immigrant’s city that welcomes with
open arms all races and all creeds from our world. The
list of the victims of the attack, from so many different
countries, attests to the remarkable and joyous
diversity that makes New York. She is truly the capital
of the world, and the right place, the only place, for its
United Nations.
29

We know that this very building might have been
a target for the terrorists, and that in an earlier terrorist
attack of 1993, the United Nations was on the list. This
seems to me proof, if any is needed, that the United
States of America is not the only object of terrorism.
Rather, it is the idea of tolerance and religious and
cultural diversity, symbolized both by New York City
and by the United Nations, that is the object of the rage
of a small group of men — men who live and die by
terror and who have turned away from political debate
to violence and death.
And so all of us here must play our part in the
battle against mindless killing, and debate both the
reasons for and the responses to terrorism. If there are
disagreements and disputes, we should never forget
that the very act of debate — the very idea of this
forum — is anathema to those whose modus operandi
is silence. What is telling, in my opinion, is not the
identity of the perpetrator — we are quite certain who
is responsible, although we have only begun to
consider why — but the fact that the perpetrators, dead
and alive, never admitted responsibility for their
actions.
I would thus like to express the views of my
country, the Principality of Andorra, in this debate.
Andorra is a small country created in 1278 by a pact of
peace, and is blessed with seven centuries of peace and
a parliamentary system that started in 1419. We
Andorrans like to think of our country as an example of
tolerance and coexistence of different creeds and
nationalities. Through the centuries, we have welcomed
scores of refugees from European wars persecuted in
their homelands for their ideas. Our Constitution,
which enshrines the secularity of the State, includes a
far-reaching bill of rights that highlights democracy
and the rule of law. Let me therefore reaffirm, as our
President, Marc Forné, stated immediately after the
attacks, Andorra’s condemnation of these crimes.
My country has taken appropriate measures to
combat terrorism in all its forms, and I will be signing
the United Nations Convention for the Suppression of
the Financing of Terrorism, the United Nations
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and
the Conventions of the Council of Europe against
terrorism and corruption.
Let me assert Andorra’s belief in the role of
debate rather than violence as a necessary response to
violence — its belief that the United Nations is a vital
forum for world conversation, a forum whose
principles, and indeed whose buildings, need to be
celebrated and protected.
Let us therefore ask ourselves what it is these
terrorists want. In the videotape he released the day the
American bombing began, their leader announced the
following goals: first, the removal of American troops
from Saudi Arabia; secondly, an end to the bombing of
Iraq; and, finally, a resolution of the Palestinian
problem.
It is worthwhile to note that both the presence of
American troops in Saudi Arabia and the bombing of
Iraq are the direct result of prior aggression. The
international community has for decades sought a
resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, but a
solution, if one is to be found, must come first and
foremost from within Israel and Palestine. Their peace,
if it is to be reached, cannot be imposed from without.
While these are the proclaimed reasons for the
hostility of the terrorist networks to the United States,
one might come to the conclusion that these stated
objectives are a screen, and that the attacks were made
in order to bring about religious wars in the twenty-
first century.
For the United States and its allies, it is a war
against terrorism. But the terrorist networks claim it is
a religious war, pitting Christianity against Islam. The
old rhetoric of the Crusades, such as the loss of
Al-Andalus — Andalusia — in 1492 and other battles
from history are being invoked by the terrorists to
inflame the feelings of Muslims throughout the world
and to bring about a fundamentalist pan-Islamic entity.
This is a delicate issue but we must face it head-on.
This crisis can be contained only if we speak bluntly
and rationally.
The terrorist networks invoke history — the
history of religious war — to inflame sentiment. Their
invocation of history, however, may be a tactical error.
For history can be our ally in the battle against
terrorism and violence.
I beg your pardon, but let us return to an earlier
point in history, a bloody time of religious crisis in
Europe — and I am speaking about the wars of religion
that decimated sixteenth and seventeenth century
Europe. Out of these wars of religion and out of the
30

bloody struggles of the Reformation came a powerful
antidote to religious violence that we call humanism.
The great French humanist Michel de Montaigne was a
sceptic. He wrote about the limits to human knowledge
in his remarkable Essays. In one of them, entitled “Of
Practice,” he observed that, although we can practice
for many things in life, there is one thing for which we
cannot practice, one thing we cannot know, and that is
our own death. He went on to describe the closest he
came to knowing death, an accident that happened
when he fell from his horse. He had been out riding in
a militia and was nearly crushed to death. He had a
brief sensation of his soul hovering over his body, and,
later, after being taken home, terrible pain continued to
plague him.
At a time of religious extremism, when Catholics
and Protestants were fighting over the keys to
heaven — just as the 11 September terrorists died
believing they would enter paradise — Montaigne
wrote about the limits of knowledge. And he wrote
about a personal experience, this accident, with which
everybody, even now, can empathize. This is why he is
called a humanist, because of his genuine interest in
human experience.
There is no revealed truth in Montaigne, no
dogmatism, only human scepticism that appears as an
antidote — the only antidote — to the certainty of
madmen who would kill for belief. This evolution in
human thought was accomplished without sacrificing
the freedom to believe, to have faith in God and to
practice a religion. To think and write as Montaigne
did — that is, to insist on the limits of knowledge, and
to speak not in a universal but in a personal voice —
was a great step forward for humankind. In turning
knowledge away from religious certainty, the
humanists allowed for a new field of understanding
that we now call the sciences.
While inquisitions would carry on for a
century — Galileo was a boy when Montaigne was
writing — the scepticism that Montaigne advanced
against religious violence in 1580 is the same as that
which Boyle, Newton, or Lavoisier would apply to the
universal truths of natural theology in order to create a
way of understanding that we now recognize as
scientific. Modern scientific understanding ushered in
the industrial revolutions, the astonishing explosion of
the middle class, of print culture and of the
establishment of modern democracies. It introduced all
of these “world-historical” events, to use Hegel’s term
that we call, rather sloppily, “modernity.”
I conclude my intervention on the subject of
modernity, because many commentators on the current
war in Afghanistan see the war framed as a war
between the Taliban, as Islamic extremists, and
modernity. They cite the way in which the Taliban have
banned all forms of mass media culture and have
insisted on a literal application of sharia law. They
argue that the Taliban are anti-modern and that their
regime is trying to return its people to an earlier, pre-
modern way of life. Yet, when we examine the lives of
the 11 September terrorists, we realize first that they
were not Afghans, and second, that they were not the
wretched of the earth. They were from the middle
class. Most were students, some with advanced
degrees. They never even had to work hard for a living,
like most members of the middle class. These men
were privileged murderers. Or let me put it another
way: they were fully modern.
The struggle between modernity and the anti-
modern is not anachronistic. To be a terrorist demands
that you enter, systematically and rationally, into the
modern world and to turn its apparatus, such as
transportation and communication, against it. The
struggle against modernity is one of the most romantic
myths generated by modernity itself. So, too, is the
misrepresentation of the poor by certain writers and
intellectuals — I need not name names — who claim to
speak for them. The suffering sown in Afghanistan by
decades of invasion and civil war, they argue, has
brought terrorism as its terrible harvest. In fact, these
poor want most of all to live, and to live well. They
embrace modernity and its comforts. But violence, the
ability to treat other people as objects, as things to be
crushed and destroyed: this is a gift bestowed by
education.
The struggle is therefore ideological. This is why
education, the greatest gift, was a passport to terrorism
for these men. The risk of education in this context is
that the pressure of knowledge, or more precisely a
recognition of uncertainties and of the limits of
knowledge, will tempt the student into dogmatic belief.
The danger always exists that education can harden
from humanistic scepticism into the rock of dogma.
What is to be done? Today I propose an urgent
return to a new humanism on two fronts: first, within
Islam, a humanism among Muslims — politicians,
31

writers, readers — that can dampen sectarian violence
and that can reach out to religious extremism to find
common ground. This can only come from within the
Islamic world. It does not have to be secular in nature,
although secularism has an important yet increasingly
threatened status within certain nations.
Correspondingly, there must be recognition within
political regimes everywhere that antipathy to political
dissent politicizes religion and creates more problems
for these regimes than it solves. Modernity’s belief in
democracy as a means to popular expression has never
proved more vital.
Secondly, outside of Islam, a return to humanism
lies at the heart of the modernity in which we are
living. To recognize modernity and its great
contribution, a secular and universal culture — mass
culture — is something that needs to be protected and
fought for. It is a modernity that insists on the rights of
men, women and children.
We all know that words often do not lead to
action. But we forget that words, the expression of
ideas and of criticism, are a vital form of action. We
cannot be simplistic in our desire for a direct
relationship between debate and resolution.
What I am proposing is certainly not propaganda;
rather, it is a worldwide debate on the importance of
debate, in which human scepticism, a recognition of
the limits of belief, is very much at stake. Whether this
argument can be made in an urgent and anti-elitist way
is very much the point. But unless we are able to
recognize modernity as a liberating experience,
independent of its accumulation of goods and services,
creature comforts, and the like, I have little hope for a
positive resolution to the crisis we now face.
Modernity is a work in process. One name for
modernity, as it exists for us today, is globalization.
This is the creation of a “world culture”, the entry of
technology into every aspect of our lives, the
omnipresence of the media and the increasing speed by
which culture and information are communicated. It
seems to me that there is tragic confusion between
globalization and abstract and oppressive technology. It
is this notion of modernity that seems to be at the heart
of the recent protests against globalization, protests
that would have been the focus of our debates before
11 September. While the protesters have many valid
points to make, and they need to be listened to,
globalization and modernity are not the problem.
Whether cooperation between nations is economic,
political or cultural, it is not a threat. Leaders and
intellectuals need to reach out and embrace the limits
of knowledge. They must speak out against dogmatism
to unravel facile notions of monolithic governments or
global compacts.
An eye for an eye, that harsh principle from the
Old Testament, will soon leave us blind. Blindness,
rather than insight, is the curse of the ideologue, of
people who do not want to see outside their own skins,
their ideas or their place. It is the curse of people who
do not want to see the world in its marvellous diversity,
its uncertainty and its possibilities. To see this world,
we have only to look around us here, now. We have
only to wander through the streets of this miraculous
city of New York.





"
56,2001,FJI,"﻿Fiji mourns the recent losses
and world-changing tragedies which the United States
of America has endured. We remember the many lives
lost in that adversity, and we express the hope that
peace and goodwill may prevail. Now is the time to
make haste to galvanize collaborative efforts by
developed and developing nations in the global fight
against terrorism.
We congratulate His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-
soo and the Government of the Republic of Korea on
Ambassador Han’s assumption of the presidency of the
25

General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. We pledge
complete support during his term of office, fully aware
that the qualities that have marked his eminent and
distinguished career promise a resounding conclusion
to the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly
despite its difficult start.
Fitting tribute is also due to his predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland. His leadership over the
previous year successfully concluded a truly hectic and
full schedule of business, including some difficult
issues and special sessions during the period of the
fifty-fifth session. He leaves an indelible mark in the
annals of the United Nations.
My Government congratulates His Excellency
Mr. Kofi Annan on his appointment as Secretary-
General for a second term; this signifies the trust and
confidence that the United Nations places in him. He
has aptly been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, which
he shares with the United Nations. Fiji welcomes the
road map he has outlined for the Organization, which,
under his creative and competent leadership, will
deliver the reforms needed to launch the Organization
into the twenty-first century.
In the wake of the political crisis that triggered
instability in Fiji in 2000, my Government set itself
two immediate tasks: to restore constitutional
democracy and to stabilize our fragile economy. Those
goals are being achieved. Moreover, my Government is
continuing to pursue strong economic performance
through increased investment and development.
I am honoured to inform the Assembly that, only
18 months after its political crisis, Fiji successfully
concluded the general elections and formed a
multiparty Government in September 2001. My
Government is confident that, with the support of the
United Nations and the international community, Fiji’s
forward-looking policies will steer it ahead on a path of
democratic rule and sustainable economic
development.
Fiji acknowledges the support rendered to us by
the United Nations and by Member States in the
deployment of the United Nations electoral observation
team during our elections. The team discharged its
duties professionally and impartially. We are confident
that it will provide the Assembly with a positive
appraisal of the conduct of the elections as free and
fair — conduct to which we have been well
accustomed throughout our electoral history.
I should like to convey my Government’s deep
gratitude to those Member States that supported Fiji
and to those that sponsored resolution 55/280, which
enabled the participation of the United Nations
observer team.
Our leaders are committed, under the Millennium
Declaration of 2000, to the principles of human dignity,
equality and equity, especially with respect to those
who are most vulnerable, in particular the children,
who are our future. It is a timely and constructive
commitment that creates the necessary global
framework for addressing the plight of the poor and the
vulnerable in the face of the accelerating impact of
globalization and trade liberalization.
Poverty is at the root of many problems. As the
most powerful destabilizing force, it threatens
democracy and good governance. It is thus our most
insidious enemy. Successive Human Development
Reports amply document abysmal accounts of poverty
and poverty indicators. A total of 1.2 billion people
live on less than $1 a day, more than a billion people in
developing countries lack access to safe water, and
more than 2.4 billion people lack adequate sanitation.
We are talking not millions, but billions.
Poverty reduction is therefore our greatest
challenge today. The Millennium Declaration set a
target to halve global extreme poverty by 2015. This
goal must be the cornerstone of all development
efforts. It demands an ongoing commitment and
effective measures on the part of the international
community.
In this connection, my Government has created a
new Ministry for Poverty Alleviation, which is a key
policy factor in our triennial Strategic Development
Plan. We recognize that economic, social and political
stability are inextricably tied to reducing the gap
between rich and poor. That equation must also
recognize the unique vulnerabilities that beset the
fragile economies of developing countries such as Fiji.
Complementary legislation is also being
developed in the Social Justice Bill to translate into
policy the constitutional provision for social equity.
Primarily, the Bill will regulate affirmative action
policies for disadvantaged groups in the areas and in
the manner prescribed in the Fiji Constitution. This is a
critical step in Fiji’s efforts towards national unity and
nation-building and its efforts to address issues of
social, ethnic and economic development and harmony.
26

Today, in our journey in this world, we are
meeting with unprecedented challenges and
uncertainties, ranging from widespread global conflict
to escalating terrorist activities and economic
marginalization. The Assembly and the United Nations
system must devise appropriate, creative responses to
these difficult questions, in ways that are compatible
with the goals of world peace and security, as
enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
Current organizational reform plans present
constructive and necessary platforms for meeting these
specific challenges. An amicable agreement on the
expansion of the permanent or non-permanent
membership of the Security Council could well present
us with new and fresh avenues for solutions. My
delegation reiterates our full support for an expansion
of both membership categories of the Security Council.
We congratulate the Security Council on the support
that its landmark resolution 1325 (2000) received, a
resolution whose implementation will allow for
increased involvement on the part of women in the
process of achieving peace and security.
Fiji has excelled in its efforts to achieve the
peacekeeping goals of the United Nations Charter. We
remain fully committed to this goal and to the Brahimi
recommendations for reform. Our military is serving in
various United Nations missions, including in Lebanon,
East Timor and Kuwait. Our police officers are serving
in Bosnia and Kosovo. It is gratifying to see positive
conclusions to several peacekeeping mandates and their
impending withdrawal or downsizing. We would
caution, however, against any exit without strategy, in
order to give credence to the huge investment of
goodwill and resources by the United Nations and the
international community, and to avoid a situation of
double jeopardy for the people trapped in armed
conflict.
In this regard, we support new measures to
strengthen the protective regime of the Convention on
the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel.
Its scope needs to include United Nations and
humanitarian personnel on the ground, who need real
protection and security while working to ensure the
safety of, and caring for, civilians.
Fiji has consistently advocated decolonization
and self-determination since joining the United
Nations. We note the delay in the implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples. Fiji supports the
ongoing work of the Committee of 24 and recognizes
the political and diplomatic constraints involved.
Early on in this Second Decade for the
Eradication of Colonialism, the 17 Non-Self-Governing
Territories, mostly small island Territories in the
Caribbean and Pacific regions, need our focused
attention, so that their legitimate aspirations for self-
determination can be recognized.
The Declaration of Commitment on the
HIV/AIDS pandemic demands that we exercise greater
vigilance and focus sincerely on safeguarding our
development gains and on our future goals. We in the
Pacific are seeking to maintain our low infection rate
trend, as we stand to lose the most if we fail to abide
by that Declaration. Only collaboration and solidarity
at the international, regional and national levels can
save humanity from this invasive scourge.
Despite the recent political disturbances in Fiji,
respect for the rule of law and for international human
rights standards has been maintained. The continued
existence and independence of the Fiji Human Rights
Commission is testimony to our commitment to human
rights.
Fiji, along with several of its Pacific Island
neighbours, is for the first time facing the dilemmas
posed by refugees and asylum seekers. International
human trafficking has brought them to our shores,
despite the vast distances between our lands.
International refugees are the direct result of violations
and breaches of human rights. As a State party to the
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and to its
Protocol, Fiji pleads with Member States to respect the
rights of refugees and to support the work of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. At the very
least, Member States are obligated to protect the rights
of their citizens in their own homeland.
Fiji co-sponsored the resolution on Korean peace,
security and reunification during the fifty-fifth session
of the General Assembly. We are elated to see peace
and reunification initiatives in the Korean peninsula.
Likewise, the small island developing States are
seeking continually to enhance our international
participation. Strengthening future relations between
the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum is a
mutually beneficial avenue. This will allow for our
effective participation in the United Nations system. It
27

also affords the United Nations with a unique and
authentic Pacific perspective and voice. Cooperation
between the Pacific Islands Forum and the United
Nations is a welcome addition to this session’s agenda
and promises greater returns, with the support of
Member States.
Our Pacific Islands Forum leaders will meet in
Fiji in 2002. It is therefore opportune to renew our
invitation to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, to
visit the Pacific Islands Forum region. Recent political
events in the Pacific and the successful domestic,
regional and international initiatives to address these
concerns can only be positively reinforced by such a
high-level, goodwill visit by the Secretary-General, to
take place early, rather than later, in his second term of
office.
Our global development agenda demands of the
United Nations an increased facilitating role in the
coordination of economic, financial, trade and social
issues. At the International Conference on Financing
for Development in March 2002, stakeholders will
deliberate on enhancing coherence and coordination
between development and social objectives. Fiji hopes
that the Conference will inspire the international
community and financial institutions, including the
Bretton Woods institutions, to support and devise new
standards and indicators, such as the vulnerability
index, to effectively address poverty and other
disparities.
Growing imbalances and marginalization in the
world economy are a threat to humanity, in particular
to Fiji and other small island developing States (SIDS).
Sustainable development depends on a given level of
resources to propel our fragile economies forward.
Moreover, these resources are needed to sustain long-
term, sound, economic and environmentally friendly
development. The critical role of the international
community is to assist us in nation-building and
efficient resource utilization so that we can fulfil our
social obligations.
Fiji has long expounded to the international
community how vulnerable and heavily dependent our
economies are on the vagaries and whims of the global
economy. Our small size, extremely remote distance
from the international markets and increasing
susceptibility to natural disasters do not lend
themselves well to economies of scale of production, to
building export-based trade or to gaining competitive
access to foreign markets for our products. Clearly, our
ability to benefit fully from globalization is doomed
from the start, further aggravating the divide between
the rich and poor. It is my Government’s aspiration that
the scope of equitable and tangible benefits from
globalization and trade liberalization is still to be fully
realized if we are to meaningfully tackle global and
human poverty.
As a member of the World Trade Organization,
Fiji is concerned at the fast erosion of trade preferences
in the world trade in agricultural products, sugar being
a mainstay of our economy. Increasingly, we fear that
small island States like my own, which depend
predominantly on agricultural export commodities, will
be seriously affected without adequate market
safeguards. We are forced to question the efficacy of a
multilateral trade framework as a fair mechanism in
promoting the interests of SIDS like Fiji.
In this context, we welcome the current work on
financing for development and preparations for the
World Summit on Sustainable Development. Targeted
assistance and official development assistance
programmes to enable us to fully implement and
strengthen investment and productivity must
necessarily complement our efforts through regional or
multilateral trading agreements. We are optimistic that
next year’s high-level conferences will flag our
concerns in line with the Barbados Programme of
Action and the development goals that are set out in the
Millennium Declaration.





"
56,2001,UKR,"﻿Allow me at the outset to
congratulate the President of the General Assembly at
its fifty-sixth session, Mr. Han Seung-soo, on his
election to that important and responsible post. On
behalf of the Ukrainian delegation, I would like to
assure him of our full support and to wish him every
success in his work. I take this opportunity also to
express our appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri, whose political wisdom and diplomatic skill
enabled the Assembly to achieve important results at
its fifty-fifth session.
A year ago, at the Millennium Summit, we, the
representatives of the nations of the world, were seen
as heralds of a new age. At that memorable gathering,
the United Nations heard words that gave humanity
hope for a new and just model of international relations
in the new century: freedom, equality, solidarity,
tolerance and mutual responsibility. Those fundamental
values enshrined in the Millennium Declaration
outlined the path that the peoples of the world will
follow in the new era.
However, while striving to breathe the fresh air of
the future, we instead swallowed a mouthful of ashes
and dust. On 11 September the modern world was
brutally wounded. The death of innocent people
shocked all those who cherish the universal values of
life and freedom.
The terrorist acts that took place in the United
States demonstrated that the philosophy of hatred,
which has no religious, ethnic or linguistic affiliation,
has become one of the key challenges of the
contemporary world. This threat requires an urgent and
clear international reaction.
Ukraine shares the pain of the American people
and fully supports the resolve of the United States
effectively to stand against the perpetrators, patrons
and instigators of those terrorist acts.
We joined the global anti-terrorist coalition
without any hesitation because we recognize the need
to unite the efforts of the international community to
counter new threats.
The military campaign in Afghanistan, which
targets the core of international terrorism, is the first
stage, and a necessary element, of these efforts. It is
also evident, however, that the Afghan people, who
live in a state of permanent humanitarian crisis, have
become hostages to terrorism. As a result, this crisis
cannot be brought to an end without consistent political
and diplomatic efforts aimed at finding a solution.
Ukraine welcomes the activities of the Secretary-
General and his Special Representative, Lakhdar
Brahimi, and supports their constructive contribution to
the stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan.
We are convinced that efforts to further
strengthen and improve international legal mechanisms
for combating terrorism should also be given a
powerful political impetus. In this context, the speedy
conclusion of work on the draft comprehensive
convention on terrorism takes on special importance.
I am also pleased to mention that the proposal of
my country to convene a ministerial meeting of the
Security Council to discuss further steps in the global
response to international terrorism was unanimously
supported by the members of the Council. There is no
doubt that, in the course of such a meeting, vital steps
42

will be taken to identify key means and methods of
combating terrorism.
We also maintain that there is a need for proper
institutional arrangements to coordinate and
complement the individual efforts of Member States in
combating international terrorism and to ensure that the
legal instruments we have elaborated are implemented
in the most efficient manner possible. Any entity of
this sort should not become just another bureaucratic
body, but, rather, should be an effective mechanism for
contributing to the consolidation of international
efforts in this area.
To honour the memory of the thousands who have
perished in terrorist attacks and to further unite our
efforts in fighting the scourge of terrorism, I would like
to propose, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, to
declare 11 September a United Nations day to combat
international terrorism. I hope that this proposal will be
supported by the General Assembly, which would then
establish this day as a symbol of our remembrance,
unity and resolve.
Ukraine welcomes the decision taken this year by
the Norwegian Nobel Committee to award the Peace
Prize to the United Nations and to its Secretary-
General, Kofi Annan. He is exactly the kind of leader
the United Nations needs today as it faces new global
challenges.
Are we ready to stand up to these new
challenges? Have we fully realized that the
deterioration of the situation in the world is due to the
existing, deep-rooted international inequality? And,
finally, how will the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly be remembered — as a session that put an
end to the age of illusions, or as a forum that
consolidated the United Nations family?
The United Nations is entering a new period of its
history. Ukraine is deeply convinced that, from a
strategic perspective, the strengthening of the status of
the United Nations as the core of the modern system of
international relations should become the primary task
of this Organization.
The terrorist acts in the United States have united
and consolidated the international community. Why has
it taken the tragic loss of thousands of innocent lives
for it to realize that there is a vital need for unity of
action on its part?
We believe that the essence of United Nations
leadership lies in ensuring an effective response to the
new challenges to security at both the global and
regional levels. This role, however, cannot be played
effectively if we do not improve the existing model of
decision-making and implementation at the
international level.
That is why my country actively supports the
reform of the Security Council. We see this reform not
as a weakening of the foundations of the Council's
work, but, on the contrary, as a move that will
strengthen them, by ensuring that they better reflect the
realities of the modern world.
This year, Ukraine is completing its term as a
member of the Security Council. I believe that the
experience we have gained will contribute to advancing
the process of change. We will consistently advocate
the need to improve the Security Council's methods of
work and to enlarge its membership. As a Central
European nation, Ukraine will actively lobby for an
additional seat on the Council for this region.
In our view, special attention should also be paid
to the philosophy of United Nations peacekeeping
activities and to the problem of sanctions. For many
years, Ukraine — which today is among the 10 largest
troop contributors to United Nations peacekeeping
missions — has consistently supported the
development of effective United Nations preventive
mechanisms.
At the Millennium and Security Council summits
last year, the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma,
emphasized the need for the elaboration of a United
Nations strategy for comprehensive conflict prevention
based on the wide use of preventive diplomacy.
I am pleased to note that the recommendations on
conflict prevention put forward by Secretary-General
Kofi Annan in his June report echo the proposal made
by the President of Ukraine. We believe that the United
Nations possesses the necessary experience and
resources for the enhancement of its role in this field,
in particular through the establishment of regional
centres to monitor potential areas of conflict, as well as
through the more active use of preventive deployment
operations.
Concerning the issue of sanctions, we are in
favour of the elaboration of a well-balanced
methodology for their imposition, implementation and
43

lifting. This critical lever of influence should not be
turned into a political boomerang.
We are also convinced of the overriding need to
further consolidate international efforts towards arms
control, disarmament and the non-proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction. On the basis of a realistic
assessment of the potential of the Conference on
Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), we hope that it will
result in an increase in the number of parties to this
Treaty, which was ratified by Ukraine last year.
I would also like to mention that next month
Ukraine will complete the implementation of the third,
and last, phase of strategic weapons destruction under
the START Treaty. On 30 October, Ukraine destroyed
its last intercontinental ballistic missile silo. In that
way we turned one of the important pages in the
history of nuclear disarmament. We are ready to
continue to make our contribution to secure the
effectiveness of the system of strategic stability in the
world.
Ukraine supports further development by the
United Nations of a universal approach to the issues of
ensuring sustainable development and eradicating
poverty in the world. We hope that the outcome of the
International Conference on Financing for
Development will be a practical step in mobilizing
national and international resources to solve these
problems.
We also intend to take practical steps to resolve a
set of environmental protection issues. As a country
that still suffers the pain of the Chernobyl tragedy,
Ukraine counts on the further active involvement of the
United Nations Development Programme and other
operational bodies of the Organization in the process of
eliminating the long-term consequences of this disaster.
Ukraine considers that cultural and spiritual
disasters are no less destructive than natural ones. The
cultural mosaic of the world is the most precious and
delicate treasure granted to humanity. Ukraine has the
honour to be one of the sponsors of the General
Assembly draft resolution on the proclamation of the
year 2002 as the United Nations year for the protection
of the world’s cultural heritage, and calls on the
international community to support this initiative.
Vigorous work to protect humanity’s historical and
cultural heritage is not only a vital necessity, it is also
our moral responsibility to past and future generations.
The year 2001 is an anniversary year for our
country. On 24 August Ukraine celebrated the first
decade of its independence. These have been 10 years
of complex processes. The main result has been
Ukraine’s consolidation as a peaceful and independent
European State. We have achieved sustainable
economic growth as a result of consistent reforms, and
my country is an active participant in European
regional processes.
Ukraine is contributing to the settlement of the
so-called frozen conflicts, specifically in Abkhazia,
Georgia, and Transdniestria, Moldova. As a member of
Group of Friends of the Secretary-General for Georgia,
Ukraine is concerned over the slow pace of the
Georgia-Abkhaz peace process.
Ukraine takes an active stand concerning the
settlement of the situation in the Republic of
Macedonia. The resolution of the centuries-old Balkan
problem is an ambitious and urgent task for Europe in
the new century.
We also note with concern the escalation of
tensions in the Middle East during the past year. The
entire history of the conflict in the Middle East proves
that its vicious circle can be broken only through
renouncing violence and reviving mutual trust and
tolerance between the sides to the conflict.
The United Nations is beginning a new and
complicated period of its activities. It is up to us to
determine how the Untied Nations comes out of its
encounter with the new challenges, united or divided. I
believe that the wisdom of this forum, which has been
nurtured through decades of hard and responsible work,
should serve to guarantee an optimistic scenario."
56,2001,SLV,"﻿We congratulate you, Sir, on your election to
preside over the General Assembly at this session and
wish you every success in fulfilling your mandate. Our
appreciation also goes to Mr. Harri Holkeri for his
work at the last session.
We wish to convey to our Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, our sincerest congratulations on his
unanimous re-election for a second term as leader of
this Organization in a broad acknowledgement of his
abilities, leadership and firm resolve to promote the
purposes and principles of the Charter, which have
been rightly recognized with the awarding to him and
the United Nations of the Nobel Peace Prize.
The delegation of El Salvador believes that the
deplorable and irrational terrorist attacks on the people
and Government of the United States, which we
repudiated and condemned at the time and do so again
in this forum, have made it plain that terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations is a grave threat to peace,
freedom and democracy. Given the special nature of
that scourge, it is essential that we unite our wills and
pool our efforts to combat and eradicate it.
These acts of terrorism have affected us all
directly, because they represent an assault on
civilization, which is based on the values and
principles embodied in the Charter of the Organization.
Indeed, such acts affect not only international peace
and security, but also the growth and development of
our economies. In view of all this, the countries
represented here should not allow minority groups to
crush our peoples’ democratic spirit or to sow
permanent uncertainty and fear by means of violence
and threats directed against the most fundamental
principles of human coexistence.
It is precisely the norms of human coexistence
that underpin and sustain peace, freedom and
development for humanity, regardless of ideology,
culture, race or religion. We concur with many
delegations that the struggle against terrorism should
4

not be considered, much less interpreted, as a struggle
among civilizations or nations.
Pursuant to the decisions taken by the
international community, the Government of El
Salvador is taking the proper steps to fulfil the
provisions articulated in the pertinent resolutions of the
Security Council and the General Assembly and other
measures decided upon at the regional and continental
level. It is appropriate to mention that at the Central
American level, the Security Commission has adopted
an ambitious programme of action so that we can work
together to combat terrorism.
With respect to our national situation, on a
number of occasions we have reiterated the
commitment and political resolve of the Government of
El Salvador to tackle effectively the challenges of
building sustainable human development. We have
made much progress in the last decade.
However, as everyone knows, this year began
with serious natural disasters. The two earthquakes in
January and February shook the very foundations of
Salvadoran society, since 25 per cent of the population
was affected, and losses amounted to 13 per cent of the
gross domestic product. The devastating effects of the
earthquakes extended into the economic and social
spheres, obliging us to implement an emergency
programme, which meant changing and adapting the
Government’s plan to match the new priorities,
redirecting the State’s limited financial resources to
reconstruction. This was compounded by an
unprecedented drop in international coffee prices, our
major export commodity. We also suffered a
widespread drought, affecting agricultural production,
which is the unpinning of our economy.
Thus we believe that it is essential to reiterate our
special recognition of and gratitude to all the countries
and international organizations that provided us with
valuable assistance during these natural disasters. I
wish to thank in particular the World Food Programme
for its effective work in relieving the food-supply
problems of large sectors of the population affected by
the drought.
It is of the utmost importance to the Government
of El Salvador to refer on this occasion to something
that has marked a turning point in the history of our
nation and which, at the same time, represents a
success for United Nations peacekeeping operations:
the first multidisciplinary mission to resolve an internal
conflict, as was the case in El Salvador.
I wish to highlight, with great satisfaction, that 16
January 2002 will mark 10 years since the historic
signing of the El Salvador Peace Agreements, which
formally ended the armed conflict that had wreaked
havoc in our society for 12 years. The Secretary-
General participated actively and played an important
role as intermediary in the process of negotiation and
in the verification of the parties’ compliance with all
the commitments they had undertaken.
Since that date, we have engaged in a process that
we can divide into two phases — first, the transition
from war to peace, and second, the transition from
peace to democracy. During the process we have made
great efforts to fulfil the commitments of the
Agreements in order to achieve peace, democracy,
respect for and protection of human rights, national
reconciliation and reunification of Salvadoran society,
and we have achieved qualitative changes in these
areas.
The Government of El Salvador, as a signatory
party deeply interested in faithful observance of the
Agreements, has been gratified to see the success
achieved in executing these undertakings, putting into
practice a constructive policy that has enabled us to
deal with sensitive and complex issues. The members
of the international community, especially the donor
countries and the United Nations, can attest to this.
In fulfilling the Peace Agreements, all
Salvadorans shouldered the obligations with the
seriousness and responsibility that were required,
mindful of the solemn significance and the implications
of such fulfilment for the aspirations and expectations
that the Agreement outlined, both domestic and vis-à-
vis the international community. This is why we are
very pleased that in fulfilling our obligations we have
not betrayed the trust of those that showed us solidarity
and supported us throughout the process.
Now more than ever, new possibilities are
opening up for all sectors of the country — with a
vision of being a nation — to face the future with a
sense of shared responsibility, and for us to undertake
the new challenges involved in continuing to bolster
democracy and promoting economic and social
development. Consequently, we are committed to the
process of modernizing and strengthening democratic
institutions in conformity with the strategy of
5

sustainable development, whose focus and destiny are
to improve the quality of life of each and every
Salvadoran.
In a globalized and interdependent world, any
situation that affects the economy of the industrialized
countries and those with emerging economies has a
significant impact on the conditions in the remainder of
the countries of the international community. The trend
towards a slowdown in these economies becomes
disquieting for our countries because of its adverse
effects on fostering economic progress and maintaining
social stability.
In this regard, it is essential to pay attention to the
problems besetting the international economic order
and prevent them from spreading and becoming causes
that generate fresh conflict, especially in the
developing countries. For this reason, we hope that the
outcome of the meeting of the World Trade
Organization in Doha will be beneficial for the
developing countries.
It is appropriate to note that during the
participation of the President of El Salvador, Francisco
Flores, in the Group of Eight Summit in Genoa, Italy,
on 10 June, he voiced the anxiety and concerns that we
feel about the serious problems that exist and stated our
aspirations as developing countries to promote the
progress of our peoples. On that occasion, President
Flores noted that we do not want handouts or
concessions based on paternalistic approaches. We
want to become partners in development and achieve
mutual benefits so that we have the opportunity to
gradually improve our conditions and have better
access to and derive greater benefit from international
markets.
In El Salvador, we have put into practice a
number of measures concerning the free market and
promotion of foreign investment. They have led to
internationally recognized economic openness, which
in practice has included a process of privatization,
especially in the communications, energy and finance
sectors and in the area of social security, enhancing our
potential for growth and development.
At the beginning of this year, as part of a gradual
process that will lead finally to the elimination of the
national currency, the Government of El Salvador
enacted the Monetary Integration Act, establishing the
dollar as the unit of account in the financial system.
This will facilitate our trading and financial integration
and further improve conditions for national and foreign
investment and access to international financial
sources.
In the area of trade, in addition to having a free-
trade relationship with our fraternal Central American
countries, we have extended our ties with Mexico, the
Dominican Republic and Chile, establishing free-trade
treaties with them, while others are in the process of
being negotiated with Panama and Canada.
At the same time, we are making an effort to
strengthen the process of the Central American
Integration System (SICA), where we have taken
significant steps, including customs activities and a
regional proposal to modernize and transform Central
America. The proposal’s strategic projects for
development were presented this year to the
Consultative Group in Madrid. The implementation of
the Puebla-Panama Plan, in which Central America is
partnered with Mexico for its development, is part of
these efforts.
In general, we can say that, given the trend
towards globalization, which marks modern
international relations, and despite the difficulties and
complexities involved, our country is doing its utmost
to take advantage of the phenomenon. In this regard,
the least that we can hope is that there will be good
will and political resolve on the part of the developed
countries to grant us solidarity and support to enable us
to become effectively incorporated in the process.
In view of the importance of the commitment
assumed by the heads of State and Government in the
Millennium Declaration of the United Nations, we note
that the International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held in Mexico, and the World
Summit on Sustainable Development will provide
opportunities to demonstrate the solidarity and
cooperation of the international community,
particularly on the part of the developed countries, by
the adoption of appropriate measures conducive to
achieving fair and equitable development, especially in
the developing countries.
With respect to other sensitive issues for the
international community, the Government of El
Salvador views with concern the continuation or
worsening of certain problems that, if not resolved,
will be a threat to international peace and security.
These include the ongoing conflict in the Middle East,
which is a source of great concern, especially because
6

during the past year we have seen unremitting violence,
leading to the irreparable loss of human life and
material and economic damage in the region, and to a
constant increase in the suffering of the Israeli and
Palestinian peoples.
In that context, the Government of El Salvador
reiterates its support for all efforts and measures aimed
at achieving a negotiated political solution that takes
into account the interests of the parties directly
involved, in order to achieve a firm and lasting peace.
The State of Israel’s right to exist and to live within
secure borders, as well as the inalienable right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination and to
establish its own State, are basic preconditions for
achieving peace, which will enable the leaders of the
region to devote themselves to promoting the progress
and well-being of their peoples.
The extraordinary situation of the Republic of
China in Taiwan is a case that the international
community should examine, particularly in the light of
the most recent changes in the international system.
Regarding the strengthening of the world
Organization, it is important that this opportunity not
be lost to address an item of priority interest for all
Member States: Security Council reform. In this
regard, we must emphasize the commitments contained
in the Millennium Declaration so that this reform can
be carried out. In that regard, we urge the Open-ended
Working Group established for this purpose to redouble
its efforts so that those commitments will be fulfilled
and so that we can achieve, on the basis of flexible
positions, a general agreement on the issue.
Finally, given the complex and uncertain
international situation, we urge all Governments,
groups and sectors of civil society to reflect on the
imperative importance of working together in a spirit
of human solidarity that will enable us to overcome all
differences that separate us in order to achieve great
global objectives that could not be achieved on an
individual basis, with a view to attaining the spiritual
and physical peace to which all nations aspire.




"
56,2001,DOM,"﻿I address this General Assembly grief-
stricken at the death of 260 people in the tragic
aviation accident yesterday in this city of New York.
Most of the individuals stricken were, like myself, of
Dominican nationality. Our profound appreciation goes
to the heads of State and Government, to Ministers and
to representatives who have expressed their
condolences to the people and Government of the
Dominican Republic at this tragedy. I am much obliged
to you, Sir.
On behalf of the Government of the Dominican
Republic I offer our congratulations to the President on
his election to the stewardship of this session of the
General Assembly, convinced as we are that he will
indeed succeed in guiding this session in the very best
interests, and for the good, of the international
community. Likewise, we offer our most heartfelt
congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, on his having been awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize. That honour, together with that bestowed upon
the United Nations, proves and ratifies the confidence
and recognition felt for the work being done by the
international community represented in this
Organization on behalf of all mankind.
Despite the fact that in September this year — on
the heels of the events of 11 September in New York
and in Washington, D.C. — the United Nations devoted
11

a number of plenary meetings to the issue of terrorism,
it is still today impossible for us to separate this from
the other items that we must deal with on the agenda of
this session. The significance of these tragic
developments is of such magnitude that it is imperative
for us, as a matter of conscience, to stop and think in
greater depth about their complexity and their
repercussions on the history that it is our lot to have to
live through, and about the most relevant ways for us
to prevent and combat this scourge. That is so because
it is plain to see that in the time that has elapsed
between September and these days of November, we
have managed to go further and into greater depth,
gaining new insights about the terrorist phenomenon.
We absolutely agree with those who have already
spoken that terrorism cannot be justified in any way,
and that the excuses some would seek to advance to
validate these deeds based on the existence of certain
economic, social, cultural or political situations, are
unacceptable. However paradoxical it may seem to
some, the conviction has also been stressed that, while
terrorism is unjustifiable and inexcusable, it is in those
very situations where terrorism finds its breeding
grounds, where frustrations and lack of prospects can
fan hatred and irrationality, where being shut out and
having no hope, being shunted to the sidelines and
suffering from poverty can incubate and give birth and
impetus to twisted feelings of indiscriminate and
irrational vengeance.
Faced with the sad reality of the events of 11
September just past, we are absolutely convinced that
the direction set for us by the Millennium Summit was
the right one, that is, the path of peace and of
fellowship among people. At that historic gathering the
rationale was analysed and the framework set for
action by the international community to promote
human rights, security, disarmament, economic
development, equality of nations, and the fight against
hunger, poverty, disease, exclusion, social, racial and
gender prejudice, and the abandonment of children, the
disabled and the elderly. There can be no doubt that
these are the priority objectives for the prevention of
violence and crime, that is to say, for the struggle
against wars, against genocide and against terrorism.
The full weight, pain and inhumanity of the
provocations of 11 September must not divert us from
the goals that we set for ourselves in the Millennium
Summit Declaration, nor draw us into any
disproportionate violence. When last month we
addressed this Assembly we stated that the most prized
virtue, indeed the democratic essence of this
Organization, that is of the United Nations, is its
commitment and determination to uphold respect for
human rights. It follows that although we know that
terrorism is the antithesis of that virtue, we must not
therefore act to confront it while failing to live up to
the obligation to protect those very rights. While acting
in a legitimate reaction of self-defence, we should not
be overcome by a spirit of retaliation but should rather
seek to apply international law and justice. That is why
the Dominican Republic cannot ignore the political
measures that surely will also contribute to preventing
and combating terrorism. Thus, we must resolutely
support Security Council resolution 1373 (2001),
adopted on 28 September, and feel ourselves also
bound by earlier resolutions and covenants the United
Nations has worked out over time in its fight against
terrorism.
In 1945 the United Nations Charter highlighted as
its core concern the need to preserve peace. That was
only to be expected after a war that had brought death
to millions of human beings and had wreaked havoc in
the life of many nations. The time that has elapsed has
brought us to the conviction that there is no better way
to preserve peace than to do all that we possibly can to
prevent war. The United Nations is ever more
necessary to attain that end, because within it we find
the underpinnings for promoting a healthy and creative
understanding among nations. Our fidelity to the
foundations of the Organization must be backed up by
a shared political will leading to actions that prove
irrefutably that we believe in and live up to what we
say and promise.
The unanimous adoption of the Millennium
Declaration, inasmuch as it represented a profound
commitment by the vast majority of the world’s
leaders, amounted to a kind of rebirth and renewal of
the United Nations in coming to grips with the
problems and challenges confronting us in the twenty-
first century. In that Declaration it was decided to do
all that we could to establish a just and lasting peace in
accordance with the purposes and principles of the
United Nations Charter, and the determination was
reaffirmed to support all efforts aimed at ensuring the
sovereign equality of States, respect for their territorial
integrity and political independence and the right to
self-determination of peoples that remain under
colonial domination and foreign occupation.
12

That pledge makes it incumbent upon us to bring
our full moral force to bear and to avail ourselves of all
possibilities afforded us by the machinery of the
Organization to resolve the conflicts that keep a
number of States around the globe in a state of war. We
have no doubt whatever that the conflict between Israel
and the Palestinian state must come to an end via
compliance with the multiple resolutions towards that
end that have emanated from the General Assembly,
thus honouring what we agreed upon in that
Millennium Declaration.
Moreover, we set for ourselves the purpose of
spurring forward reform of the United Nations Charter
and respecting the equality of the rights of nations.
Ratifying the Millennium Declaration means that there
can be no delay in turning the Security Council into a
body that would respond to the historic realities of the
present world and in establishing a logical set of
democratic balances based on those realities. It seems
to us fair for the non-permanent members to participate
in the Security Council via a rotational system that
would give to all the same opportunity. By the same
token, the Dominican Republic believes that it is also a
matter of equity and historical realism for us to accept
the Republic of China on Taiwan as a Member of the
United Nations. Geopolitical reasons must not override
situations of fact that have been recognized in bringing
other States into the United Nations.
In the Millennium Declaration the problem of
globalization was addressed with the following words:
“We recognize that developing countries
and countries with economies in transition face
special difficulties in responding to this central
challenge. Thus, only through broad and
sustained efforts to create a shared future, based
upon our common humanity in all its diversity,
can globalization be made fully inclusive and
equitable.” (resolution 55/2, para. 5)
As we speak, a Ministerial Meeting of the countries
members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) is
being held in Doha, Qatar. Most countries with small
economies are rightfully calling for the fulfilment of all
the agreements of the Uruguay Round. We hope that
they will not be saddled with unbearable new burdens,
that their calls will be heard and that generous
solidarity and cooperation will be shown, as well as
understanding of the imbalances, differences and
asymmetries in the pace of development when
comparing rich countries to poor, small ones.
Among the objectives of the World Trade
Organization are respect for human rights,
strengthening democracy and preserving the
environment. All that will not be possible if the process
of globalization is not carried out with a sincere and
resolute determination to show understanding and to
provide cooperation and technical assistance to help
the majority of the nations on this planet to achieve
development. How are we to understand the deadlines
set by the World Trade Organization for attaining
certain economic objectives, in some cases as soon as
2003 and in others 2005, when the Millennium
Declaration, aware of the inequalities and difficulties
facing most nations, seeks to redress no sooner than
2015 — and only to a certain degree — the poverty of
millions upon millions of human beings whose income
is less than $1 a day? We hope that at the conferences
scheduled by the United Nations, such as the
International Conference on Financing for
Development and the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, light can be shed on these problems in
an effective way, yielding equitable measures designed
to reduce the inequalities separating peoples one from
the other.
Allow me finally to refer to an aspect most
intimately tied to respect for and recognition of human
rights, something that also coincides with the
Millennium Declaration inasmuch as it refers to the
demands of women and gender equality. Indeed, the
International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women (INSTRAW), based in the
Dominican Republic, is one of the few United Nations
institutions located in a developing country, and the
only international institute devoted to research on and
training for the advancement of women. The Secretary-
General, in his report to the General Assembly
presented in the Third Committee on 17 October 2001,
said that, notwithstanding the difficulties and
uncertainties that INSTRAW has encountered in the
last two years it has managed to obtain the minimum
resources for fulfilling the mandate assigned to it by
the Assembly and the Economic and Social Council.
He went on to say that inasmuch as the Institute
has begun to produce tangible results via the
information system and contact networks in creating an
awareness of gender issues, perhaps the Assembly
would wish to adopt a decision on how Institute would
13

be able to operate productively and cost-effectively
beyond the year 2001.
Let us not let INSTRAW — that noble institution,
a pioneer in the advancement of women, particularly of
women in developing countries — perish for lack of
resources. Let us make a consistent and generous
gesture, demonstrating solidarity, so that the General
Assembly will ensure the continued existence of this
institution beyond this year of 2001, by allocating in
the United Nations budget the funds necessary for it to
continue to work towards its fruitful humanitarian
ends.




"
56,2001,SLE,"﻿My delegation
extends to you, Sir, its warmest congratulations on your
election to the presidency of this body at its fifty-sixth
session. Given your impressive credentials, we are
confident that under your guidance we will conclude
our deliberations successfully. I would like to take this
opportunity to express our appreciation to His
Excellency Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, who
17

admirably conducted the affairs of the epoch-making
Millennium Assembly last year.
Let me also warmly congratulate our
indefatigable Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on
his reappointment to a second term of office and on his
award, with the United Nations, of the 2001 Nobel
Prize for Peace. As citizens of the West African
subregion, we in Sierra Leone are proud of his
stewardship. Sierra Leone is indeed indebted to him,
the staff of the Secretariat and the United Nations
family for their invaluable support of our effort to
secure peace and stability in my country.
Forty years ago, on 29 September to be exact,
Sierra Leone was admitted as the one hundredth
Member of the United Nations. During the period that
followed, we made our own modest contribution to the
maintenance of international peace and security. We
have faithfully adhered to the purposes and principles
of the Charter. We have practised, and continue to
practise, tolerance and good-neighbourliness. Our faith
in the Organization remains as strong as it was 40 years
ago.
At the same time, the United Nations and its
agencies have done a lot for the people of Sierra
Leone. As President Kabbah told the Millennium
Summit last year, in the course of its membership,
Sierra Leone has tested the capacity of the United
Nations to respond to major challenges, especially in
the areas of peacekeeping, through the United Nations
Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL), and of
humanitarian law, through the proposed special court to
try those who bear the greatest responsibility for
serious violations of Sierra Leonean law, war crimes
and crimes against humanity committed in Sierra
Leone. In conveying our sincere thanks to the
Organization and the rest of the international
community for their support, my delegation expresses
the hope that Sierra Leone and the United Nations will
continue to work closely for peace, security and
sustainable development in the coming years.
Sadly, this session of the General Assembly is
taking place in the aftermath of the despicable acts of
terrorism inflicted on our host country on 11 September
2001 — acts that claimed the lives of thousands of
Americans and of the nationals of 86 other countries.
As we share their grief and renew our heartfelt
condolences to the families of the victims and the
Government of the United States, we Sierra Leoneans
are reminded of that ominous day in January 1999
when over 5,000 innocent civilians were brutally killed
during the rebel onslaught on our capital city. Hundreds
of others, including children and young girls, were
abducted or raped or had limbs deliberately amputated.
Terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is
deplorable and must be eradicated. My delegation
would like to assure this Assembly that we shall do
everything within our power and available resources to
support the current multilateral counter-terrorism effort
under the aegis of the United Nations.
The new emerging coalition to counteract the
scourge of terrorism is absolutely necessary. However,
the Sierra Leone delegation strongly believes that we
should also strengthen existing coalitions or build new
ones against those forces that continue to kill millions
of children and adults throughout the world every
single day. We know these forces. We know their
vicious and destructive powers. Hunger, poverty,
malnutrition, malaria, HIV/AIDS, brutality and
intolerance — these are but a few of them.
Sierra Leone calls upon this Assembly and the
entire international community to use the current
international solidarity against terrorism to translate the
Agenda for Peace, the Agenda for Development, the
Millennium Declaration, the Declaration and Plan of
Action of the World Summit for Children and similar
strategies and goals into a series of new coalitions: a
new coalition against childhood diseases; a new
coalition against poverty and human
underdevelopment; a new coalition against the scourge
of HIV/AIDS and malaria; and a brand new coalition
against the accumulation of nuclear weapons and other
weapons of mass destruction.
There has been a marked improvement in the
situation in Sierra Leone. The serious humanitarian
crisis still prevails, but is gradually subsiding.
Thousands of ex-combatants have been disarmed and
demobilized. Government authority and civil
administrative services are gradually being established
in areas previously occupied by rebels. Our
restructured army is now truly professional, thanks to
the intensive training programme directed by the
Government of the United Kingdom.
By all accounts, we can say that the overall
security and safety situation is one of great expectation.
In the coming months, the people of Sierra Leone will
once again start to enjoy to the fullest extent their basic
18

right to life — a life free from brutal armed rebellion
such as that provoked and abetted by external forces
and fuelled by blood diamonds for 10 long years. In
this connection, my delegation would like to express
our sincere gratitude to the United Nations and its
agencies, the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS), UNAMSIL troop-contributing
countries, the United Kingdom and other friendly
nations for their individual and collective contributions
to the peace process in Sierra Leone.
Allow me from this rostrum to express the
condolences of the Government and people of Sierra
Leone for those brave and dedicated ambassadors of
peace from the United Kingdom, Zambia, the Ukraine
and Bulgaria who lost their lives in the recent
helicopter accidents in my country.
Despite our optimism for peace and stability in
Sierra Leone, past experience of adventurous attempts
by the rebels to renege on their obligations under peace
agreements have taught us a lesson: We have to remain
constantly vigilant. The safety and security of the
people will remain high on our national agenda, as will
the process of consolidating the peace through
sustainable development. This is why we would like
the United Nations, especially the Security Council, to
continue to generate the necessary international support
for our post-conflict and peace-building effort.
In this connection, we would like to draw the
attention of the international community and those who
assist us in the implementation of our disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration programme to the fact
that the disarmament and demobilization of ex-
combatants will soon come to a successful end.
However, the process of reintegration remains crucial.
We could lose the gains we have made in the peace
process if we allow the reintegration of ex-combatants
to collapse for lack of adequate funding. As President
Kabbah pointed out recently, we also have tens of
thousands of young people who have never seen,
touched or used an AK-47 rifle or a rocket-propelled
grenade. They, too, are waiting to be integrated into the
mainstream of our economic and social sectors.
On behalf of my Government, I would like to
appeal to the international community, as a matter of
urgency, to help us remove some of the root causes of
conflict by increasing support for our reintegration and
integration programmes for the benefit of youths. We
should no longer allow the legitimate social and
economic needs or grievances of these young people to
be exploited by ruthless warlords whose sole objective
is to drain our precious mineral resources for their own
selfish ends.
Speaking of diamonds, I would like to inform this
Assembly that our diamond certification system,
established under Security Council resolution 1306
(2000), has so far been a major success. First, there has
been a substantial increase in revenue from legitimate
diamonds since the system was established just over a
year ago. Secondly, it has also helped to reduce the
incidence of an old problem that preceded the
phenomenon of conflict or blood diamonds — namely,
smuggling. My Government is in the process of
updating the status of the certification system in its
third report to the Security Council through the
Committee that is monitoring the implementation of
resolution 1306 (2000).
The sacrifices we have made for peace in Sierra
Leone are not for Sierra Leoneans alone; they are also
in the interest of peace and stability in the Mano River
Union triangle in particular and the West African
subregion as a whole. The recent rapprochement at the
ministerial level, followed by meetings of the Joint
Security Committee and the initiative launched by the
Mano River Union Women Peace Network in the three
countries — Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone — augur
well for the proposed Mano River Union summit
meeting. Meanwhile, I can assure the Assembly that
President Kabbah remains committed to his
determination to help restore adherence to the principle
of good-neighbourliness in the Union. This should lead
to a revitalization of economic cooperation
programmes among the three countries. We must admit
that conflict and tension in the Union have had a
negative impact on the ability of ECOWAS to
concentrate on the principal objective for which it was
created, namely, economic cooperation and
development.
We are aware that primary responsibility for
alleviating poverty, stimulating economic growth and
reducing conflicts and their often disastrous
consequences lies in the hands of the developing
countries themselves. We are also aware that
development requires sound fiscal policies and rational
management of both our human and natural resources.
19

However, the international consensus is that
sustainable development also requires greater
cooperation between developing and developed
countries in such areas as trade, debt relief and external
financing. In this regard, Sierra Leone, one of the least
developed countries in the world, eagerly looks
forward to the results of the forthcoming Conference
on Financing for Development and the World Summit
on Sustainable Development.
There are many pressing and unresolved
problems on the international peace and security
agenda of the United Nations. One of them is the
situation in Palestine. It remains the core issue in the
search for peace in the Middle East. In our view, it also
breeds tension, and directly fans the flames of war in
other parts of the world. In the current state of affairs it
is no longer enough to speak about the right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination. They have a
right to an independent State of their own. In short, the
establishment of an independent Palestinian State is
well overdue. In terms of international peace and
security, we cannot afford any further delay.
Sierra Leone is obviously not a nuclear Power.
However, as a member of the human family, we are
concerned about the threat or use of nuclear weapons.
Indeed, we believe that these weapons pose the greatest
threat to human survival. Therefore, we shall continue
to support universal adherence to regional and
international disarmament and non-proliferation
instruments. For instance, Sierra Leone recently
ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
which we strongly believe is central to the question of
the vertical, or qualitative, proliferation of nuclear
weapons.
We are also seriously concerned about the
proliferation of conventional arms, including those that
have brought untold suffering to the people of Sierra
Leone during the past 10 years.
Last July, at the United Nations Conference on
the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in
All Its Aspects, we pleaded in vain for action to
prevent the transfer of these weapons to non-State
entities such as terrorists and rebels who commit
atrocities against innocent civilians. The recent
terrorist attacks and the awareness that biological
weapons in the hands of such non-State entities pose a
threat to us all should, in the view of my delegation,
prod those Member States that were unable to support
our plea last July to seriously reconsider their position
on this important issue of arms transfers to non-State
entities. We also need their full support in the
implementation of the Programme of Action adopted at
that important Conference.
In conclusion, my delegation is convinced that
the international community has at its disposal the
instruments, institutions, strategies, targets and road
maps for counteracting and eradicating terrorism, HIV/
AIDS, malaria, hunger, malnutrition and other deadly
forces, through closer multilateral cooperation.
Let the fifty-sixth session of this Assembly,
which was interrupted by the common enemy of
terrorism, go down in history as the new multilateral
cooperation session, one that should inspire all nations,
large and small, nuclear and non-nuclear, to deal
resolutely with the other common enemies of the
human race.


"
56,2001,CYP,"﻿I would like to extend my
warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your
well-deserved election as President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. I also extend my
appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for
his effective leadership during his presidency.
The heinous terrorists attacks of 11 September
have undeniably transformed international relations.
The United Nations is called upon to reinforce its
primary role as the standard bearer of the principles
that will shape the new environment and unite
humanity in the pursuit of justice, tolerance, the dignity
of human beings, respect for human rights, the
promotion of peace and zero-tolerance for the dark
forces of terrorism.
On behalf of the Government and people of
Cyprus, I reiterate our deep condolences and sympathy
to the American people for the tragic loss of innocent
lives caused by the abhorrent terrorist acts of 11
September. We unreservedly condemn these barbaric
acts, which we consider to be attacks against the values
and principles of humanity.
The community of nations must individually and
collectively take concerted and resolute action against
terrorism. We believe that there is no justification or
excuse for terrorism and, at the same time, we reject
any notion of linking this scourge with any particular
religious faith or ethnic group. We renew our
commitment to implement fully Security Council
resolutions on terrorism, in particular resolution 1373
(2001). Cyprus is actively participating in the common
effort. It has ratified or acceded to nine of the 12
international conventions pertaining to international
terrorism. Furthermore, we expect an early ratification
of the most recent Convention for the Suppression of
the Financing of Terrorism, which is already before the
House of Representatives.
The Council of Ministers of the Republic of
Cyprus approved on 20 September a comprehensive
proposal for the establishment of a task force to combat
international terrorism.
The United Nations continues to be faced with
old and new tasks: globalization, good governance,
protection of the environment and the need for
sustainable development. The elimination of poverty
and pandemics, securing a world free from the threat of
2

weapons of mass destruction and maintaining
international peace and security remain high on the
agenda. That is why we consider it imperative and the
duty of each and every Member to provide the
necessary resources and support to our Organization.
Cyprus strongly supports the implementation of
the commitments we undertook last year in the
Millennium Declaration. We also advocate the
strengthening and rationalization of the United Nations
system, and we welcome the commitment of the
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, to strive for a better
and more just world. We congratulate him on the award
of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize, which is well-
deserved recognition of the central role of the United
Nations and a tribute to its achievements, as well as to
his personal devotion and commitment.
At the beginning of this new millennium, we have
a special obligation to place new emphasis on the
promotion and the protection of human rights and the
defeat of terrorism.
However, the adoption of declarations and legal
instruments in the area of human rights is not enough.
We need to make accountable those violators of human
rights and decisively strike at the culture of impunity.
This is why Cyprus strongly supports the early entry
into force of the International Criminal Court.
We are also deeply concerned with the increasing
number and scope of humanitarian emergencies leading
to an ever-rising number of refugees and internally
displaced persons. The plight of these unfortunate
people merits special attention and coordinated action.
The tragic events of 11 September have
highlighted the need to continue and accelerate efforts
to prevent and resolve regional conflicts. The inability
of the international community to put an end to the
unacceptable situation in the Middle East undermines
the credibility of the system of collective security.
Cyprus, as a neighbouring country with close relations
to the peoples of the region, is particularly pained by
the continuing cycle of violence, the tragic loss of
innocent human lives and the plight of the Palestinian
population.
We look forward to a region living in peace,
stability and security for all States, including the State
of Israel. We reiterate our support for the fulfilment of
the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people,
including the creation of their own State. We urge both
parties to work immediately towards finding ways to
put an end to this cycle of violence and to respect the
provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention. We
consider the implementation of the recommendations
of the Mitchell report as an absolutely necessary first
step in this direction. Cyprus reiterates its long-held
position for the implementation of Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973).
We follow the situation in the Balkans with
particular interest. Cyprus supports the implementation
of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) on Kosovo.
We hope that the forces of peace and reconciliation will
prevail and welcome the recent positive developments
in the country. We support respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms, including the right of return of
refugees and the return of property of displaced
persons, and the principle of the inviolability of
borders and territorial integrity.
Resolution of the Cyprus problem is long
overdue. I cannot conceal my deep disappointment,
shared by the Security Council in its statement to the
Press of 26 September, at the refusal of the Turkish
side to continue with the proximity talks to help the
Secretary-General’s efforts to find a comprehensive
settlement. The refusal of Turkish Cypriot leader
Mr. Denktash, with the support of Ankara, to resume
the talks that he abandoned a year ago, despite the
official invitation extended by the Secretary-General in
September, is particularly disturbing.
The Secretary-General is now trying to invigorate
the process of negotiation. Therefore, in order to
facilitate the Secretary-General’s effort, I will refrain
from making remarks that normally I would have
made, other than to identify the reason for the failure to
make progress, which is the lack of political will on the
part of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leader,
Mr. Denktash.
The Turkish side has abandoned the concept of a
bi-zonal, bi-communal federal Cyprus, which Security
Council resolutions have provided as the basis for the
solution. The Turkish side is also calling the
international community to accept the so-called
realities, which is the legalization of Turkey’s
occupation of 37 per cent of Cypriot territory, in breach
of international law, the forceful expulsion of Greek
Cypriot refugees from the occupied area and the
subsequent importation of 120,000 settlers from
mainland Turkey in an effort to change the
3

demographic character of Cyprus. As is well known,
the international community, through a plethora of
United Nations resolutions, has repeatedly rejected this
policy. Acceptance of these so-called realities would
create a very dangerous precedent in international
affairs, striking at the very heart of the cherished
principles of State sovereignty and territorial integrity.
I would like to refer to the purely humanitarian
problem of missing persons, the resolution of which
remains one of the most pressing issues for the
Government of the Republic of Cyprus and for all
Cypriots.
Unfortunately, Mr. President, I must once again
report to you that the agreement on missing persons of
31 July 1997 between Mr. Rauf Denktash and myself,
providing for the exchange of information and for
information on the location of graves of Greek Cypriot
and Turkish Cypriot missing persons, has not been
implemented because of the continuing negative
attitude of the Turkish side. We appeal again to the
Government of Turkey to show the necessary political
will in order to bring a final solution to this tragic
humanitarian issue and abide by the l0 May 2001
judgement of the European Court of Human Rights.
In the face of current difficulties, we do not
despair. Our vision for Cyprus is a departure from the
passions of the past. History is often described as the
best teacher of wise men. We see as the future of our
country: a reunited federal State, member of the
European Union, with human and other rights of each
and every citizen fully protected under the process of
democracy and the rule of law. We see a State with a
single citizenship, sovereignty and international
personality, a demilitarized State enjoying the fruits of
its labours in the wider European family, while at the
same time playing its rightful role in our immediate
region of the Eastern Mediterranean.
I recommend to the leadership of Turkey that it
abandon its threats to annex the occupied part of
Cyprus. I urge them to consider the obvious advantages
of the solution of the Cyprus problem for stability in
our region, the consolidation of the Greco-Turkish
rapprochement and the promotion of Turkey’s
aspirations to join the process of European integration.
I urge the Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr. Denktash,
to join me in sharing the vision of a Cyprus too small
to be divided but huge for the common prosperity of all
its inhabitants. I urge him to look to the future and not
to the past, to listen to the increasingly desperate
voices of our Turkish Cypriot compatriots and stop
placing obstacles, at each turn, to the good offices of
the Secretary-General for a solution to the Cyprus
problem.
It is noteworthy that the economic prospects for a
post-settlement Cyprus are truly impressive. This
growth will be even greater for our Turkish Cypriot
compatriots, who are currently suffering because of the
dire political and economic situation in the occupied
area. Tragically, almost 50 per cent have been forced to
take the cruel road of emigration. The Turkish Cypriots
will benefit considerably from the accession of our
country to the European Union.
I urge Mr. Denktash to realize that he and I are
not getting any younger and that we owe it to the
younger generations of Cypriots to do away with the
walls of division. For my part, I reiterate my readiness
to engage in the process of negotiations with the
necessary political will and good faith for finding a fair
and viable solution based on the United Nations
resolutions, meeting the legitimate interests of all
Cypriots.



"
56,2001,PRT,"﻿English text furnished by the delegation): It is with
great pleasure that I congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo
on his election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. I also pay tribute to the outgoing President,
Mr. Harri Holkeri. I renew my respects to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the notable and
courageous way in which he has continued to fulfil his
mandate and for the well-deserved award of the Nobel
Peace Prize to him and to the United Nations.
18

My Belgian colleague has already addressed the
Assembly on behalf of the 15 States members of the
European Union in a statement with which my country
aligns itself completely. I would, however, like to
reflect upon certain issues on the international agenda.
First, I cannot fail to refer to the tragic terrorist
attacks of 11 September against the United States, and
in particular against the city of New York and innocent
citizens of many nationalities. I reiterate our deep
sorrow and reaffirm our complete solidarity with all
those who, like us Portuguese, were victimized by the
loss of their compatriots and by the suffering of the
bereaved families.
We are dealing with violence without a face,
violence that kills indiscriminately and that must be
confronted by the international community as a whole,
irrespective of the religion we practice, the race to
which we belong, the ideology we follow or the
civilization into which we were born. It falls to each
and every State Member of the United Nations to fight
this scourge, whose blind hatred has plunged the world
into a state of turmoil not seen since the end of the
Second World War. What is most shocking to us is the
fact that we are faced with a force that ignores or
despises the very concept of the right to life.
We must embark on a concerted effort at all
levels to submit to justice those guilty of the crimes
committed, with a view to avoiding a repetition of the
terrorist acts of September. We believe the United
Nations has an irreplaceable role to play as the source
of legitimacy for the collective effort of the
international community in the fight against this
common enemy. It is for other forums to complement
these actions, orienting and adjusting them in
accordance with the concrete needs of their respective
mandates.
In this context, I would like to recall that Portugal
has supported without reservation the international
fight against terrorism here in the United Nations, in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, in the
European Union, in the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and in our bilateral
relations with the United States and other countries. I
would like to assure the Assembly that in its
presidency of the OSCE next year, Portugal will
attribute particular priority to this matter.
In the light of the current circumstances, I must
stress the importance of the entire range of
international legislation produced, or awaiting
approval, under the aegis of the United Nations in the
area of the fight against terrorism: the 12 conventions
whose ratification and implementation make them
crucial weapons in preventing and fighting against this
scourge. Because of its particular significance at this
time, I refer specifically to the work of the General
Assembly on the draft global convention on terrorism.
The great efforts made by the great majority of
delegations in search of compromise solutions bear
witness to a renewed convergence of wills in pursuit of
this common goal. We should take advantage of the
current momentum of collective commitment to reach
the speedy completion of this essential instrument.
Portugal has already signed 11 of the 12
international conventions against terrorism and is
strongly committed to fully implementing their
provisions. Yesterday we deposited our instrument of
ratification for the International Convention for the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, and shortly we will
deposit our instrument of ratification for the Protocol
for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at
Airports Serving International Civil Aviation. We
welcome the adoption of Security Council resolutions
1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001), which are fundamental
instruments for the cohesion of the international
community in its legitimate fight against terrorism. I
would also like to highlight the measures contained
therein for the fight against terrorist financing — an
absolutely crucial area.
As I have already stated, Portugal has supported
from the beginning the international campaign under
way in Afghanistan, which has been legitimized by the
deliberations of the United Nations. Those responsible
for the terrorist acts that claimed the lives of thousands
of innocent civilians on 11 September must be captured
and tried, and their military infrastructure must be
eliminated. In our view, the principles guiding the
intervention in Afghanistan should include the
preservation of territorial integrity and the unity of the
country, as well as the establishment of a broadly
supported, multi-ethnic and representative
Government.
We believe that, from the very start, the Afghan
people should be associated with the reconstruction of
their country, which has been devastated in recent years
by a brutal regime that is not recognized
internationally. The international community should
19

spare no efforts in alleviating the serious humanitarian
situation affecting the Afghan people.
Finally, let me reiterate that the Portuguese
Government unequivocally supports the efforts
undertaken by the United Nations, and in particular by
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General,
Mr. Lakdar Brahimi, in envisioning a transitional
governmental structure and in planning a possible
United Nations mission on the ground. In a post-
Taliban scenario, the United Nations will be called
upon to take a decisive role in the reconstruction of
Afghanistan as well as in the establishment of peaceful
relations between Afghanistan and its neighbours.
The United Nations plays an indispensable role in
the prevention of conflicts, the maintenance of
international peace and security and the reconstruction
of territories devastated by war. Numerous conflicts are
awaiting resolution and constitute a considerable
challenge to the international community’s capacity to
guarantee their peaceful and definitive settlement.
The situation in the Middle East, specifically in
Palestine, is the most worrisome, placing even
international security at risk. The international
community can spare no efforts to ensure that Israel
and the Palestinians return to the path of dialogue.
Only there will a solution be found that is just, both for
the Palestinian people — who have fought for decades
for the recognition of their homeland, an inalienable
and undeniable right, and for dignified living
conditions within a sovereign and responsible
Palestinian State — and for Israel, which has an equal
right to live in security in the region and at peace with
its neighbours.
As another example of international conflicts that
drag on, apparently with no definitive resolution in
sight, my country profoundly regrets the continuation
of the armed conflict in Angola and its severe
humanitarian consequences. Portugal reaffirms its
commitment to and support for the search for a
political solution to this problem, in line with the
provisions of the Acordos de Paz, the Lusaka Protocol
and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. It
is essential that the commitments undertaken with
regard to the international community, and principally
with regard to the Angolan people, be respected.
Portugal encourages the Angolan Government to
redouble its efforts to achieve national reconciliation.
We also encourage the introduction of political and
economic reforms in Angola, with a view to
reinforcing in particular the legitimacy of its
representative and pluralistic institutions and the
strengthening of the credibility of its monetary and
financial structures.
We also appeal for a return to political means on
the part of those — such as the sector that inspires the
more radical line of UNITA — that have resorted to
methods, namely violence against civilians, that have
placed them outside the international community. In
fact, the absence of constructive proposals — including
with regard to a ceasefire or the cessation of offensive
operations — does not contribute to the
implementation of possible platforms for dialogue,
which the current situation demands.
We praise the important and increasing
contribution made by Angolan society, particularly its
churches, to peace and reconciliation. We believe that a
United Nations presence in Angola continues to be
essential and should be encouraged.
In that vein, I would like to actively encourage
the Secretary-General to intensify all possible efforts to
relaunch the peace process in Angola with a view to
the adequate implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, so
that that great country can finally guarantee tranquillity
to its citizens and recover its standing and the role to
which it is entitled in international life, fully taking
part in achieving the objectives of the African
renaissance. I am certain that the troika of observer
States, as well as the African regional organizations
and the European Union, will firmly support the
contribution of the Secretary-General to a definitive
resolution of the Angolan issue.
When the international community successfully
intervenes in a conflict, it should not be turned aside
from the consolidation of the solutions reached. The
United Nations has the responsibility of maintaining an
appropriate level of involvement until the definitive
conclusion of the peace process, so as not to put at risk
the investments made and expectations created. The
United Nations should proceed without hesitation in
supporting the creation of viable nations.
I welcome the Security Council’s endorsement of
this understanding with regard to East Timor, on 31
October. The international community cannot neglect
the consolidation of the solutions achieved in East
Timor, whose transition to independence is, in fact, a
clear case of success for the United Nations and a
20

special reason for pride for the Community of
Portuguese-Speaking Countries. I take this opportunity
to underline that this entire process has been conducted
in an exemplary manner by the United Nations
Transitional Administration in East Timor under the
leadership of Sergio Vieira de Mello.
The work of the United Nations towards the
consolidation of a new and indisputably sovereign,
democratic and economically viable State only
reinforces the credibility of the Organization at a time
in international life when its inspiration and leadership
are more needed than ever before to correctly manage
the great global challenges of the twenty-first century."
56,2001,AUS,"﻿Sir, let me begin, like
others, by congratulating you on having been elected
President of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. Let me also very warmly commend you on
your commitment to making the most efficient use of
the Assembly’s time, including — if I may say — by
beginning meetings punctually. I also want to join other
speakers in congratulating the Secretary-General, Kofi
Annan, and the United Nations more generally on their
heartily deserved receipt of the Nobel Peace Prize.
The terrorist attacks of 11 September in
Washington, D.C., and here in New York City were not
just attacks on the United States. Australia, along with
more than 80 other nations, lost innocent civilians. We
are united in our grief for the victims and their
families. Australia condemns these attacks and
reaffirms unequivocally that terrorism is never justified
and must never be tolerated.
Australia has joined the international coalition
against terrorism. We have invoked our mutual security
pact for the first time with the United States, and we
are contributing military forces to the campaign against
those responsible for the 11 September attacks.
The international community is obliged to close
ranks against terrorism. We must starve terrorists of
their support — financial, political and moral. We must
deny terrorists safe haven. We must bring terrorists to
account.
Australia commends Security Council resolution
1373 (2001) of 28 September, which targets
comprehensively the terrorist menace. We will work
closely with the Committee on Counter-Terrorism of
the Security Council.
Australia has introduced new measures to prevent
and suppress the financing of terrorism and is already
party to all but one of the 12 international counter-
terrorism instruments.
A comprehensive convention against terrorism is
potentially a very important symbol of global
commitment on this issue. As the Assembly is aware,
Australia has taken a leading role in the negotiations,
reflecting our strong commitment to strengthening the
international legal framework. While we are
encouraged by the progress this past month, we join the
Secretary-General in urging the parties to conclude the
convention without delay.
The events of 11 September underline how
important it is that we maintain and strengthen
international non-proliferation regimes governing
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. If we want
to prevent the spread of ballistic missiles and
associated technology — and if we want to strengthen
mechanisms relating to conventional weapons — then
we also need a stronger commitment to other arms
control and disarmament instruments as well.
Let me turn now to East Timor. We all have a
deep interest in a stable, secure, viable and democratic
East Timor. East Timor is no longer an emergency, but,
instead, an emerging nation.
However, much more needs to be done. East
Timor remains vulnerable, and the role of the United
Nations is not complete. We need, after independence,
an integrated United Nations mission of civilians,
police and peacekeepers, under a single Security
4

Council mandate funded from United Nations assessed
contributions.
Australia therefore welcomes the Security
Council President’s statement of 31 October endorsing
the Secretary-General’s recommendations for a United
Nations successor mission in East Timor. We look
forward to working with others over the coming
months to set a solid and sensible mandate for a
successor mission.
Cooperative relations between East Timor and
Indonesia are key to East Timor’s longer-term security
and to that of the region as a whole. We very much
welcome steps by both sides to resolve outstanding
issues.
We welcome progress by the Indonesian
Government to resolve the situation in refugee camps
in West Timor, and we urge continued efforts to ensure
security and to facilitate the safe return of refugees.
Justice and reconciliation are important to East
Timor’s longer-term stability and prosperity. Australia
welcomes steps by President Megawati Soekarnoputri
to expand the jurisdiction of the ad hoc human rights
court and her Government’s commitment to bring to
justice those who have perpetrated human rights crimes
in East Timor. That commitment was reconfirmed in a
most welcome way in the Assembly yesterday by the
Foreign Minister of Indonesia, Mr. Hassan Wirajuda.
Australia will continue to support East Timor
generously. We have an agreement to share resources
from the Timor Sea. We are helping to reduce poverty
in East Timor and we are building East Timorese
capacity to govern peacefully and democratically. We
urge others to support East Timor. This is our chance,
collectively in the international community, to ensure
that the United Nations historic mission in East Timor
is remembered as a success.
Let me talk about what we in Australia call
“people-smuggling”. Australia has a proud history as a
major country of migration. We are, as a result of over
a century of planned and managed legal migration, a
tolerant multicultural society. We will continue as a
country of migration and we will continue to take more
than our fair share of refugees.
Regrettably, Australia is also increasingly a
favoured target for illegal migration, assisted by
individuals and criminal syndicates engaged in the
pernicious crime of people-smuggling. Many other
countries — as either transit or destination countries —
are also affected by this problem. As with other
transnational crimes, combating the phenomenon of
people-smuggling requires not just national, but also
concerted regional and multilateral action.
People-smugglers are primarily organized crime
syndicates. They exploit their victims. They find their
clients among people who have experienced conflict or
persecution, economic downturn or extreme
environmental breakdown. They target those desperate
for a better life. The loss recently of more than 350
lives, when a people-smuggling boat headed for
Australia sank, is a tragic reminder of the human costs
involved and of the callousness of people-smugglers.
Irregular migration, facilitated by people-
smuggling, undermines the integrity of the
international protection system. All countries share an
interest in protecting and strengthening the
international protection system. To do so, we must
tackle the problem of people-smuggling. A year ago, at
the Millennium Summit, leaders committed us to fight
people-smuggling and other transnational crimes. We
should redouble our efforts to do so. We need
coordinated, comprehensive approaches and concerted
international action to address all its aspects. Root
causes in source countries need to be addressed. The
humanitarian and other needs of displaced persons in
countries of first asylum need to be addressed. Transit
countries and countries of destination need to
cooperate more effectively.
Australia is working closely with its neighbours
in the Asia-Pacific region to strengthen our capacity to
prevent and deter people-smuggling and to bring
perpetrators to justice. This will continue to be a high
priority for my Government. We will also continue to
contribute to broader international efforts to deal with
the causes of irregular migration. These efforts, which
have the protection needs of refugees at their core, will
continue while we work with others in our region and
internationally to combat illegal migration and people-
smuggling.
Afghans fleeing the devastation of their homeland
pose a particular challenge to the international
community. A renewed focus and a more coordinated
response are needed. Australia supports the efforts of
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees and those of the countries of first asylum
to protect refugees in South-West Asia. We have
5

advocated, consistently and strongly, a comprehensive
response to the Afghan situation and substantially
increased our assistance to displaced and vulnerable
Afghans in South-West Asia.
The international community faces grave new
challenges that threaten global peace and prosperity. At
the same time, as the Secretary-General said in his
statement, the challenges that faced us before 11
September — poverty, disease, development — have
not diminished. The need for international cooperation
has never been greater. It is therefore tremendously
important that agreement was reached in Doha to
launch the development round of world trade
liberalization. Free trade, including in agriculture,
offers benefits for all countries and is crucial for
developing countries to overcome poverty.
Finally, I want to say that Australia stands ready
to support international efforts to combat international
terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass
destruction. Australia stands ready to ensure that recent
United Nations successes — such as in East Timor —
help create vibrant and sustainable democracies in
which people can be assured of their future and that of
their children. Australia stands ready to contribute to
sustained international action against people-smuggling
at source, in transit and at destination. Australia urges
that this fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly
makes substantial progress towards those same goals.








"
56,2001,AUT,"﻿I am speaking
here while still in shock over the terrible aeroplane
crash in Queens, our immediate neighbourhood,
especially since the area of Rockaway, where so many
brave New York firefighters live, was already suffering
in the aftermath of the earlier catastrophe. I wish to
express my deep sympathy to all those families and to
the great number of people affected by this tragedy.
Let me at the outset congratulate His Excellency
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to this high office.
While assuring him of my delegation’s full cooperation
and support, I am confident that under his guidance and
leadership — which he has already proven in the first
days of his new function — this session of the General
Assembly will contribute to strengthening global
cooperation and its indispensable platform, the United
Nations, in the coming months.
I should also like to take this opportunity to
reiterate my very best wishes to the Secretary-General
on his appointment to a second term of office.
Furthermore, I would like to congratulate him very
warmly on being awarded, jointly with the United
Nations, the Nobel Peace Prize, an honour and
recognition he truly deserves for his leadership,
dedication and courage in the service of our
Organization. This award also signals recognition of
and encouragement for the United Nations and all those
who are committed to its mission, not least United
Nations staff members.
Allow me to also express here our thanks to the
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth
session, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the many efforts he
undertook not only in conducting day-to-day business,
but also in revitalizing the United Nations, in particular
the General Assembly.
My colleague, the Foreign Minister of Belgium,
has already addressed this Assembly on behalf of the
European Union. Austria fully endorses his remarks.
Two months have passed now since the heinous
terrorist attacks of 11 September. Although we are still
in shock at the loss of thousands of innocent lives, we
have, however, also been encouraged by the resolve
expressed in the collective response of the community
of nations, here in the General Assembly and in the
Security Council. This unanimous strong reaction gives
us hope that today our nations are ready to cross over a
threshold, leaving behind a world of deadly divisions
and entering a genuine global community.
There are some positive signs to that effect.
These are, first, that during the past weeks, we have
witnessed new astonishing political — maybe even
geopolitical — alignments that, if followed through,
are comparable to other watershed events of historic
proportions. Secondly, the menace of an
unprecedented, devastating type of terrorism is
compelling us to take a fresh look at the root causes of
much that is unacceptable in our world, according to
our own standards, but which we have been tolerating,
or at least living with, quite contrary to our declared
principles. I refer to the abject levels of poverty,
inequality and injustice. These factors are at the origin
of many conflicts around the globe. Some of them are
particularly dangerous, providing breeding grounds for
global terrorism or serving as pretexts for terrorists. It
would be irresponsible if we — the international
community — did not engage in renewed efforts to find
solutions to these regional conflicts, be they in the
Middle East, in Afghanistan, in Kashmir, in the
Caucasus or in the Balkans, as well as in the area
around the Great Lakes, for instance, which has seen so
much human suffering.
The European Union, on a continent marked by
centuries of war, has developed its model of conflict
resolution. It is held in three words: cooperation,
partnership, integration. The European Union is
engaged in a welcome policy of extending this zone of
peace. We hope that the enlarged Union, planned to
23

become a Union of 28 and later more, will be able to
contribute more effectively to peace and stability in the
world.
Under the present circumstances, Austria’s
priorities outside Europe are the Middle East and
Central Asia, not least because these areas have a direct
bearing on the fight against terrorism in its present
phase.
The Middle East conflict has been on our agenda
without interruption since the time of the creation of
the United Nations. There is no doubt that we have a
special obligation to contribute to a just and viable
solution. A heightened sense of responsibility is felt
when, on the one hand, violence escalates, but when,
on the other — as I see it — new opportunities have
emerged. Austria is therefore of the opinion that major
concerted efforts should be undertaken so that
negotiations can resume on the basis of Security
Council resolutions without delay. Only sincere
negotiations and a sincere renunciation of violence can
bring a rapprochement of the two parties and, finally,
peace.
Afghanistan is a reminder of what happens when
a conflict is neglected too long. Now, there is a new
dimension unfolding. We are forced to act. The
humanitarian tragedy is obvious. In this context,
Central Asia deserves increased attention, for example,
in view of assistance in the maintenance of stability
and concertation aiming at the necessary reconstruction
of Afghanistan.
I should like to say a word as to the Balkans, a
neighbouring region to my country. It must not be
neglected, although new dangers emerge elsewhere. In
the western Balkans, there is progress, especially in
Zagreb, in Belgrade, in Tirana and in Sarajevo, but
overall stability and economic recovery are not yet
assured. Extremists have not yet disarmed. We have to
keep up a high profile of international commitment.
Combating terrorism is, of course, not a one-
dimensional task. It requires cooperation on many
fronts. I see the United Nations as playing a key role in
this regard. This requires a clarification and
coordination of tasks within the United Nations system
so as to ensure the necessary synergy. There is also a
role for regional cooperation. To provide an example, a
so called regional security partnership has been
established between Austria and some of its
neighbours, candidates for European Union
membership, across the boundaries that, for half a
century, divided Europe.
Overall, we must address long-term societal
development at the local, national and global levels and
the capacities required to build a universally shared
political culture based on respect for human rights and
human dignity, including for the plurality of identities
at all levels of society.
Let me elaborate now on the United Nations role.
The time has certainly come to significantly strengthen
the United Nations capabilities and programmes in
combating and preventing terrorism. The complexity of
the challenge requires intersectoral and inter-
institutional cooperation. We have to enable the
principal organs of the Organization, including their
specialized subsidiary organs, such as the Security
Council’s Committee on terrorism, the General
Assembly’s Ad Hoc Committee on Terrorism, the
Economic and Social Council’s Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice and the appropriate
Secretariat units to perform the tasks that are now
urgently needed.
The Commission on Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice will hold a special meeting on
terrorism in the context of the Vienna Declaration on
Crime and Justice on 15 November 2001. Just one
week prior to the terrorist attacks of 11 September,
plans of action for the implementation of the Vienna
Declaration were adopted. They will play an important
role in the system-wide response to international
terrorism, including a comprehensive set of
recommendations for both national and international
action. These recommendations stress once more the
existing relationship between terrorism, on the one
hand, and crime, including transnational organized
crime and illicit drug trafficking, on the other.
The United Nations Centre for International
Crime Prevention and its Terrorism Prevention Branch
have received a focused mandate, which should serve
as a solid basis for enhancing the capabilities of the
United Nations in the prevention of terrorism. To this
end, the human and financial resources should be
strengthened accordingly.
Needless to say, the challenge of terrorism
requires the full support of each and every
Government. Ratification of the various international
legal instruments, as well as the conclusion of
negotiations concerning a comprehensive international
24

convention against terrorism, are of fundamental
importance. The Terrorism Prevention Branch of the
United Nations should also get immediately active in
providing, where requested, concrete assistance to
Member States in implementing national legislation
required by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001),
as well as in national capacity-building.
Several items on our global agenda have
reminded us of the fundamental importance of the
individual citizen and of society in economic, social,
cultural and institutional development. Increasingly, we
have understood the strategic role of the basic
principles and values of our societies upon which the
future of mankind is based. Our rejection of terrorism
must be absolute. At the same time, we need to
strengthen our networks and skills in dialogue, cross-
identification and solidarity.
We do need a globally shared political culture
that is based on respect for global diversity, which
finds its only limits in the right of others to diversity.
We must never allow fanaticism, violence and
terrorism to undermine the fabric on which peace and
security are built. Now more than ever, we have to
redouble our efforts in the development of our societies
based on plurality and trust among peoples and
cultures.
In this context, the Secretary-General’s efforts to
promote dialogue among civilizations, an initiative of
President Khatami, can have enormous significance.
Austria had the pleasure of inviting the Secretary-
General’s Group of Eminent Persons for its first
meeting in Vienna and was honoured by the Secretary-
General’s personal participation in last summer’s
Salzburg dialogue among civilizations. Austria’s
commitment to dialogue has found its expression in a
series of inter-religious encounters, especially between
Christianity and Islam, over the past 10 years. These
encounters have served to identify common values and
to project them into the wider communities. For us,
such dialogue has the core objective of developing
societies’ capacities in preventing hatred,
disintegration and politically motivated violence
against fellow citizens.
Austria’s efforts have also focused on another
element of societal development. Long-term strategies
of terrorism prevention require a globally shared
culture of human rights. Let me mention briefly the
growing cooperation between qualified regional
institutions for human rights education and learning in
Africa, South Asia, the Far East and the Pacific,
Europe and Latin America. The proclamation of human
rights cities in all of these regions might merit specific
attention by the appropriate organs of the United
Nations, including the Commission on Human
Settlements.
We are aware that there is a direct relationship
between the internal negation of human rights, on the
one hand, and a culture of violence that may eventually
project its effects not only internally but also
internationally and even globally. In view of
accelerated globalization and worldwide economic,
cultural and information relations, we may have to take
proactive measures to strengthen our shared basic
beliefs and political values through education and
learning processes. The current United Nations Decade
for Human Rights Education might also offer
opportunities for appropriate initiatives in response to
the horrifying scenario of global terrorism.
In this context, we have to give greater
recognition to the role of women in providing human
security and human development in all our societies.
The recognition is due in particular in crisis areas
where women have not only been the victims of most
of the intra-societal violence, but have also assured the
survival of the neediest.
A case in point is Afghanistan and Afghan
society. Eighty-five per cent of refugees and internally
displaced persons are women and children. In fact,
those who are often depicted as the weakest element in
society had to bear the brunt of violence and
repression. As we design our programmes for
reconstructing a post-terrorist Afghanistan, we must
conceive of programmes by which women, in
particular those now in refugee camps, are enabled to
contribute their share in a governance of development,
peace and cooperation. This is essential for a society
that wishes to overcome the scars of decades of
conflict and war. To be concrete, I therefore suggest
that education and training programmes aimed at
empowering women — in particular, those in refugee
camps — to assume public responsibility in the
reconstruction of their country be immediately
implemented.
The media bear an increasingly important
responsibility in shaping societies’ value structures and
capabilities. As Austria’s Federal Chancellor Wolfgang
25

Schüssel said in his statement on the United Nations
Year of Dialogue among Civilizations at the General
Assembly’s 42nd meeting, Austria is taking an
initiative, in the context of the partnership between the
European Union and the Mediterranean countries, that
will focus on the special role and responsibility of the
media in this partnership and in the societal
development towards accepting and benefiting from the
plurality of cultures and identities in this region.
In conclusion, I should like to make a few
comments on other very important developments with
regard to items on our global agenda. The sustainable
use of the local, national, regional and global natural
resources with which we are endowed continues to be
of foremost importance. The recent study by the
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
(IIASA) on the projected dramatic reduction of
agricultural productivity — between 45 and 55 per cent
in Africa, India, southern China and Latin America —
over the next 50 years due to climate change reminds
us that the processes of long-term global change need
as much action as our activities in coping with crises
and combating criminal terrorism. The World Summit
on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg will need
not only a technical but also a political focus with an
appropriate resolve for our shared global development.
One specific area where newly shared policies
and institutional support may be required, is the
integration of energy policies into the global
sustainable development agenda. The Commission on
Sustainable Development at its ninth session and the
third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries recognized the strong connection
between energy-policy interventions and poverty
reduction. Energy considerations should therefore be
fully integrated into the implementation of the
Millennium Declaration. Vienna, which hosts four
prominent international organizations in the field of
global energy policies — the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO), the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and
IIASA — could offer, with Austria’s support, a
framework for developing an innovative platform in
this regard. I look forward to exploring this issue
further with interested partners.
With many developing regions having to cope
with the difficult and often precarious management of
mountain resources, we should take advantage of the
International Year of Mountains, 2002, for new
initiatives in exchanging experience and for new
programmes of cooperation.
Finally, we are still working on implementing our
resolve to strengthen the Economic and Social Council
of the United Nations for accomplishing its important
tasks. The Economic and Social Council reform paper
by the Secretariat’s Department of Economic and
Social Affairs contains, I think, very valuable
contributions to our ongoing debate. As Austria already
suggested years ago, coordination and integration of
the United Nations system’s reporting in economic and
social affairs and the preparation of a comprehensive
“state of the world” report by the Secretary-General
would not only facilitate but significantly enhance the
role of the Economic and Social Council in policy
formulation in this field.
When coping with the dynamic processes of
global change in the economic sector, we have to put
the human being back into the centre of our policies.
New efforts have to be undertaken to internalize the
multiple dimensions and costs of globalization. In this
context, let me especially welcome the Secretary-
General’s initiative of a new partnership with the
global business community, inviting it to share in the
responsibility for what is happening in the global
public space.
All the concerns I am addressing in this statement
have a common focus: understanding the human being
as an actor, a perpetrator, a victim and a partner, in
other words, as the basic paradigm of global
development. This is why human development, human
rights and human security are the points from which we
have to address both the current crises and our long-
term development objectives."
56,2001,TTO,"﻿Trinidad and
Tobago would like to congratulate the President on his
election to preside over the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly. His unanimous endorsement by
both his regional group and all Member States is
testimony of the high esteem in which he and his
country are held by the Organization. He may rest
assured of the full cooperation of my delegation as he
engages in the task of presiding over the work of the
United Nations.
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago takes
this opportunity to thank Mr. Harri Holkeri, President
of the Assembly at its fifty-fifth session, for the skilful
manner in which he guided the Organization during his
tenure.
My delegation also congratulates the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his election to serve this
body for a second term. Mr. Annan has brought a
unique vision and a sense of purpose to the United
Nations, engendering in the Organization a renewed
spirit to address the issues confronting the international
community at the dawn of this century. In so doing he
has sought to put the basic rights and collective
aspirations of human beings at the centre of the work
of the United Nations. It is not surprising therefore that
both Mr. Annan and the Organization that he so
effectively heads should this year be recipients of one
25

of the world’s most coveted and prestigious awards, the
Nobel Prize for Peace. Trinidad and Tobago extends to
them its most sincere congratulations.
It is with an equal sense of pride that I also feel
compelled to mention that the twin island State of
Trinidad and Tobago is the birthplace of another of this
year’s Nobel laureates, Sir Vidiadhar Naipaul, recipient
of the Prize for Literature.
It is propitious that 2001 was proclaimed the Year
of Dialogue among Civilizations by the General
Assembly. It is a clear acknowledgement by the
international community that it is only through
dialogue that the voices of diverse peoples, and their
approaches to the many challenges that face them, find
expression. Indeed, tolerance and respect for diversity
remain key components of the strategies that must be
developed to address these concerns. Dialogue that is
fair and free of fear speaks not merely of a civilized
society but of a society that will endure. History will
judge us, not by our so-called progress, but by what we
as people, as nation States and as a world community
allow to endure.
In this regard, the fundamental values enshrined
in the Millennium Declaration are so integral to this
process that they can never be overemphasized. They
provide the much needed guidance required in
maintaining focus and commitment as we strive to
address these global challenges. Indeed, in the context
of unfolding world events, there appears to be a greater
and more urgent need to recommit ourselves to the
values inherent in dialogue among nations.
Two months ago, in our host city of New York, in
Washington, D.C., and in Pennsylvania, the world
witnessed the most heinous terrorist assault. Many
Member States, including my own, count their citizens
among the victims. We have all been affected by the
diverse and widening repercussions of that assault. It
was a harsh and tragic reminder that we live in a global
environment and that events in one country can have an
impact on each and every one of us.
We must recognize those vicious acts for what
they are. No country is immune from terrorism. We
have a collective responsibility to send a strong and
clear message that such acts will not go unpunished.
Action has been initiated to counter them. Member
States must therefore pursue with renewed vigour, at
the national and international levels, all appropriate
measures designed to combat this scourge against
mankind. In keeping with this stance, Trinidad and
Tobago has already acceded to 11 of the international
conventions against terrorism. Trinidad and Tobago
vehemently condemns terrorism in all its
manifestations, wherever it occurs.
Acts of terrorism have their origin in the hearts
and minds of the misguided. There are now looming
threats of recourse to bioterrorism, chemical warfare
and even nuclear weapons. The international
community should not delude itself that conventional
tactics will return that sense of security that many parts
of the world enjoyed prior to 11 September. A world
forum like the United Nations must address the
fundamental underlying causes — the social,
economic, political and psychological conditions that
provide a fertile breeding ground for terrorism. We
have a moral responsibility to our citizens, to our
children and to coming generations, to make the world
a better place for them by denying the terrorist his use
of fear and intimidation.
Let me extend, on behalf of the Government and
the people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, our
condolences to those who lost their lives in the recent
tragic aeroplane crash.
Despite the gravity and topical nature of the
phenomenon of terrorism, we cannot allow the spectre
of terrorism to deter us in our sense of purpose as we
pursue developmental objectives aimed at the
betterment of our peoples. Neither should we allow it
to deflect attention from other activities which impact
just as negatively on our societies, such as the illicit
drug trade and the illegal trade in small arms. For its
part, my Government has enacted legislation
authorizing the confiscation of the assets resulting from
drug trafficking. In like manner, existing legislation
will be strengthened and relevant measures put in place
as part of my country’s contribution to the international
effort in the fight against terrorism.
It is this very need to preserve democracy, the
rule of law and respect for human rights, that spurred
the Government of Trinidad and Tobago to propose, in
1989, a renewed focus on the establishment of a
permanent International Criminal Court. We will
continue our efforts to have the crimes of illegal drug
trafficking and terrorism included within the
jurisdiction of the Court.
At the national level, the Government of Trinidad
and Tobago recognizes the need also to maintain a
26

focus on promoting economic growth and creating a
better quality of life for all its citizens as key elements
in preserving democracy. In this context, the
Government has identified nine key objectives aimed at
creating a healthier, better educated and highly skilled
nation, capable of fully participating in the life of the
national community and the wider global society. But
even as we pursue these objectives, we know that, as a
small island developing State, we have special needs
and vulnerabilities. Therefore what is required is a
supportive, regional and global environment. That is
why we accord special significance to the
achievements of the various development targets set
out at last year’s Millennium Summit. As a small
island developing State, we would like to remind this
Assembly of the Summit’s resolve to implement,
rapidly and in full, the 1994 Barbados Programme of
Action and the 1999 outcome of the twenty-second
special session of the General Assembly pertaining to
the needs of small island developing States.
Trinidad and Tobago is also of the view that trade
remains one of the essential elements for our economic
growth. While safety and security concerns have
become a priority, the onus is still on the international
community to guarantee the strength and stability of
commodity prices, on which the majority of developing
countries depend to finance their growth and
development.
Consideration must also be given to extending
debt relief to middle-income countries, as this will free
resources otherwise allocated to debt servicing to assist
in the financing of critical sectors, such as health and
education. Trinidad and Tobago, for example, currently
utilizes a significant portion of its gross domestic
product to meet debt servicing requirements —
resources which would be better utilized in our fight
against the AIDS pandemic, which is fast emerging as
a major development challenge, not only for Trinidad
and Tobago, but for many of our sister islands in the
Caribbean and elsewhere in the world.
Resource mobilization at the national, regional
and international levels is central to the development of
small island States. Trinidad and Tobago has
consequently given priority to the mobilization of
domestic resources within an overall macroeconomic
policy which encourages the creation of a competitive
business environment.
Success in domestic resource mobilization is,
however, heavily dependent on the external
environment and linked to success in accessing the
markets of developed countries. Many of the factors
which impinge on the process of attracting foreign
capital lie outside the control of developing countries.
Trinidad and Tobago faces the particular problem of
attracting foreign investment in the non-oil sector,
which affects the overall development of the social
infrastructure. Foreign direct investment also tends to
flow where profits are highest, not necessarily where a
sound policy for the creation of a hospitable local
environment has been instituted.
Of equal significance for developing States is
next year’s International Conference on Financing for
Development, at which the central issue of reforming
the decision-making system will be under review.
International financial institutions, for their own part,
must therefore work to ensure that developing
countries are allowed to participate more fully in all
policy decisions which directly affect them.
Similarly, the special and differential treatment
provisions of the World Trade Organization (WTO)
agreements must be implemented if developing
countries are to maximize their potential gains of trade.
Trinidad and Tobago is convinced of the need for the
WTO to recognize the differences in the levels of
development capacity which exist among its members,
including developing States. Our position on this issue
was clearly enunciated at the just concluded Doha
ministerial meeting. Trinidad and Tobago therefore
welcomes the agreement reached at that meeting to
make special and differential treatment operationally
effective to facilitate development and to ensure that
modalities for further commitments, including
provisions for special and differential treatment, are
established by 31 March 2003. We also welcome
agreement on a work programme to examine issues
related to the trade of small economies for the fuller
integration of small and vulnerable economies into the
multilateral trading system. We will remain actively
engaged as the process unfolds.
To Trinidad and Tobago, as a member of the
African-Caribbean-Pacific Group of States (ACP), of
critical concern, too, is the inordinate and unjustifiable
delay in granting the waiver request for the ACP/
European Commission Partnership Agreement. It is an
issue which has serious systemic implications for the
Organization and it is for this reason that Trinidad and
27

Tobago, like fellow ACP members, considered it
imperative that it be addressed at the ministerial
conference.
In the sphere of health, no one would dispute that
a real connection exists between a nation’s
development capacity and the health of its people. In
this regard, my Government has noted with special
interest the call to strengthen the resolve adopted at the
Millennium Summit to halt and reverse the spread of
HIV/AIDS by 2015. At the heart of our concern is the
fact that the Caribbean region ranks second among the
regions of the world where AIDS is the leading cause
of death in the 15 to 44 age group, a distinction our
region can ill afford to bear.
Trinidad and Tobago again demonstrated its own
commitment to international efforts by hosting last
month the Tenth International Conference for People
Living with HIV/AIDS. Further, Trinidad and Tobago
was among those countries specially selected to
participate in phase II of the HIV/AIDS vaccine trials,
which aims to develop a safe, affordable and accessible
vaccine. The Government, too, has successfully
negotiated with pharmaceutical companies a 90 per
cent reduction in the cost of antiretroviral drugs.
Trinidad and Tobago also supports the establishment of
the Global Fund for AIDS and Health. As a member of
the Transitional Working Group of the Fund, we will
seek to ensure that, in the modalities of the Fund,
accession will not be burdensome and bureaucratic and
that special consideration will be given to the most
seriously affected countries.
Another element in the pervading cycle of
underdevelopment is the presence of persistent poverty.
Trinidad and Tobago fully supports the call of heads of
State and Government at the Millennium Summit to
strive to cut in half by 2015 the proportion of people
living in extreme poverty. At the State level, Trinidad
and Tobago’s progress in the area of poverty
eradication is illustrated by the high ranking it has
enjoyed since 1977 in the United Nations Human
Development Index.
Likewise, Trinidad and Tobago remains
committed to the agreement on the economic and
environmental goals of the United Nations. We
therefore welcome the agreements reached at the sixth
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
especially the establishment of a special climate fund, a
fund for least developed countries and the Kyoto
Protocol adaptation fund to be established in order to
finance concrete adaptation projects and programmes.
We now encourage developed countries to ratify the
Protocol so that it can enter into force as quickly as
possible.
As a small island State which relies heavily on
the marine environment for our petroleum, natural gas,
fishing and tourism industries, we are also committed
to upholding the principles and fulfilling the
obligations of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea. We support the work of the
International Seabed Authority in respect of the
development and exploitation of minerals of the deep
seabed for the benefit all humankind. In our quest to
ensure the preservation of the marine environment, we
reiterate that the question of the transhipment of
hazardous waste through the Caribbean Sea is a cause
of deep concern to the region since, in many instances,
the marine environment constitutes the only
meaningful resource on which some States depend for
their very economic existence.
Against a landscape of differing stages of
development, of differing cultural perspectives and of
disparate and competing interests, what does emerge is
an undeniable strength of purpose within this body that
unites us all in a shared commitment not only to
improving the standard of human life, but to preserving
it at all costs. Harnessing this strength of purpose
ultimately depends on every Member State’s
appreciating its inherent value and the value it adds by
its participation in the work of forums such as these. It
is for this reason that we must continue the dialogue,
albeit more vigorously, to ensure that the interests of
peace and security are better served. Reform of the
Security Council must therefore be advanced in a
meaningful way. Democratization of the Security
Council will require more equitable representation.
This goal can be accomplished only through the
expansion of the Council in both the permanent and the
non-permanent categories.
The task before us is not insurmountable. We
must deepen the dialogue to accelerate implementation
of the goals defined at the Millennium Summit and
specified in the various global conferences and reviews
which have taken place to date. We must ensure that
the process of implementation is conducted within a
spirit of equity and justice. Equal attention must be
given to all groups of countries, developed and
28

developing, large and small, landlocked, transit and
small island developing States. Trinidad and Tobago
remains fully committed to this process. Let us make
this fifty-sixth session one of defining the process of
implementation.





"
56,2001,GEO,"﻿Let me congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the demanding job of the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. It is a fitting recognition of Korea’s role in the
international community and of your extensive
experience and able leadership.
I would also like to extend our congratulations to
Mr. Kofi Annan and the United Nations for the much
deserved award of the Nobel Peace Prize. It should
serve as an added source of inspiration for him in his
second term as Secretary-General and for all of us here.
The fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly
runs parallel to dramatic events for the development of
mankind. On behalf of the Government and the people
of Georgia, I wish once again to express my sincere
condolences and compassion to the American people
for the tragic events of 11 September.
15

Ominous threats we had been talking about for so
long have become real. Georgia, a country that over the
past decade has suffered terribly from different
manifestations of terrorism, is an active participant in
the campaign against terror. The time is ripe for
increased cooperation from all States and peoples of
good will in this fight against terror.
I am referring not only to cooperation in the
military field. Overcoming this evil requires close
cooperation in development, the protection of human
rights, eradicating poverty and in many other fields.
Today’s realities are a lesson to mankind on the
consequences and cost of indifference and a lack of
attention to what is happening all around the world.
The United Nations is certainly a unique
Organization, where we, the Member States, can shape
common strategies to combat many of the ills and
problems of the day. These strategies and action plans
are worked into various United Nations resolutions,
decisions and declarations.
The United Nations Millennium Declaration is a
great achievement in this regard. It is virtually a pledge
on the part of nations to a common fight against the
manifold challenges we face today. Without any further
delay, Georgia, its people and all the peoples of the
world need a clear demonstration of readiness to
implement the commitments made in the Declaration.
We are hopeful that the report of the Secretary-General,
entitled “Road map towards the implementation of the
United Nations Millennium Declaration” (A/56/326).
will become a guide for Governments around the
world.
Strengthening the capacity of the United Nations
in the area of conflict settlement is crucial to the
creation of a new world order based on common values
and principles. The world order of the twenty-first
century is clearly incompatible with the widespread
violations of human rights, and this could lead to a
destabilization of the international system.
The reforms should also encompass United
Nations peacekeeping operations. Georgia supports the
measures to enhance the effectiveness of United
Nations preventive mechanisms. In the same context,
the early deployment of peacekeeping contingents
should be more coherent and systematic in order to
quell conflicts in their early stages. The launching of a
peacekeeping operation or a change in its mandate
requires the consent of all sides involved. We are
inclined to think that this approach requires revision.
The cause of peace should rank as a higher priority for
the United Nations than the consent of any side
involved in the conflict.
In the words of the Secretary-General,
“the international community must remain
prepared to engage politically, and if necessary
militarily, to contain menace and ultimately
resolve conflicts that have got out of hand. This
will require a better functioning of the collective
security system than exists at the moment. It will
require, above all, a greater willingness to
intervene to prevent gross violations of human
rights.”
Internal conflicts spawned by separatism are no
less dangerous to international security than the
confrontations of the cold-war period or conflicts of
international character. The reformed United Nations
must be more concrete and decisive in terms of
employing the compulsory measures provided for in
Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter.
Georgia fully shares the view that there is a need
to improve the United Nations rapid response system.
We support the timely creation of a United Nations
rapid deployment force, whose utilization in the early
stage of peacekeeping operations would contribute to
the prevention of many conflicts.
I would like in particular to note the work of the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and
other structures under the United Nations umbrella in
Georgia. Their assistance is many-faceted, and these
structures in particular are making a great contribution
to the process of Georgia’s democratic transformation.
However, a new agenda for cooperation is also
required.
I wish to underscore the joint initiative of the
United Nations and the International Monetary Fund
with regard to creating a programme for the eradication
of poverty. Georgia is one of the most active
participants in this programme. An interesting part of
its effort is the elaboration of a programme of
employing internally displaced persons in small
businesses. All of these processes are taking place
under very difficult conditions and in an environment
of numerous problems.
Over the past two years the perspectives of rapid
development in Georgia have been countered by the
16

absence of progress in the peace process in Abkhazia,
Georgia. It is time to put an end to the spiritual and
physical suffering of the people of Georgian, Abkhaz
and other nationalities who have been forced from their
homes and lands by the tragedy of war. Most
importantly, we cannot instil hatred and enmity in the
coming generations. The value of peace in the region is
too high to be sacrificed to the political and
commercial ambitions of a single group.
The time has come to react duly to the ethnic
cleansing carried out in Abkhazia, Georgia. The
separatists, with the help of outside forces, expelled
about 300,000 people from their places of residence.
The inalienable right of people to live in their
homeland is still being flagrantly trampled.
On numerous occasions Georgia has expressed its
deep concern about the presence of uncontrolled
regions within the territories of the sovereign State,
ruled by de facto separatist regimes. The
encouragement of these regimes is totally unacceptable
and fraught with dangerous consequences. The tragic
downing of a United Nations helicopter over Abkhazia,
Georgia, is one such heartbreaking example. I wish to
take this opportunity to once again express our deep
condolences to the families of the victims, who paid
the ultimate price for upholding the noble principles of
the United Nations.
I would like to use this important rostrum to bring
to the Assembly’s attention the danger of large-scale
provocation that Georgia is facing today. I am referring
to the violation of Georgia’s airspace and the bombing
of our territory. Such attacks have taken place before as
well, but, despite our protests, no adequate reaction
was forthcoming. Georgia views these acts as an
infringement of our sovereignty and an attempt by
some forces to subvert the peace process.
All of this is taking place at a time when the
United States, together with the international
community, is mobilized against the most evil enemy
of humankind: international terrorism. Georgia clearly
visualizes its place in this fight, and President
Shevardnadze has repeatedly expressed readiness for
cooperation. But it is unacceptable that some States use
this noble cause of fighting terrorism as a disguise in
order to reassert influence in the post-Soviet context.
The Government of Georgia reiterates its
commitment to the peaceful settlement of the conflict
in Abkhazia, Georgia. We believe that the use of force
runs contrary to our political interests, in particular the
interests of our multi-ethnic population, including the
Abkhazians. At the same time, it is becoming
increasingly difficult for the Government of Georgia to
dissuade those people who have lost their faith in a
peaceful resolution of the conflict from using other
means.
We are offering a special programme for
resolving the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, to all our
political partners, the Security Council and the
European bodies. This programme has to be
implemented without delay, notwithstanding changes it
may undergo or substantial concessions it may require
from the parties involved in order to reach agreement
and to put the programme into action.
For two years the document on the distribution of
constitutional competencies between Tbilisi and
Sukhumi, drafted by the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, has been kept within the confines of
the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General on
Georgia. This document has to constitute the basis for
meaningful negotiations on the scope of autonomy for
Abkhazia.
The Government of Georgia is ready to grant
Abkhazia the widest form of autonomy practised
around the world today. Considerable international
support is needed to restore confidence between the
parties, as indicated in the Declaration of the Yalta
meeting that took place with the assistance of brotherly
Ukraine.
Let me stress again that we attach great
importance, and we are anxious to begin discussing,
the economic rehabilitation strategy for the region. We
also look forward to carrying out projects beneficial to
all and to preserving the unique Abkhaz people.
We need working relations with Russia that are
both cordial and at the same time equitable. Russia is a
country with which we have cultural and friendly ties
that are centuries old. We can only value its special
role as the regional leader, member of the international
anti-terrorist coalition, permanent member of the
Security Council and the facilitator of the peace
process in Abkhazia, Georgia. We expect that all this
will be utilized in the best interests of all the people of
Georgia. The continuation of misunderstanding and
confrontation is unacceptable.
17

We must exert every effort to put an end to the
use of separatist regimes by certain countries as a way
of exerting pressure on neighbouring nations.
We support the dialogue among civilizations as a
means of achieving better understanding between all
the peoples of the world. We would be honoured to
host a forum dedicated to this issue. As a country on
the crossroads between Europe and Asia, Georgia, with
its ancient and multifaceted culture, is an appropriate
place for such a meeting.
In closing, let me stress again that it is dialogue
and cooperation that should determine the fate of
mankind. For that purpose we need a United Nations
with broad, coherent and determined capabilities.








"
56,2001,COL,"﻿Allow me, on behalf of the Government of Colombia,
to express our satisfaction at your assumption of the
presidency of this session of the General Assembly.
Your experience and leadership are valuable credentials
for bringing our deliberations to a fruitful result. I wish
also to pay tribute to your predecessor, the Minister of
Foreign Affairs of Finland, His Excellency Mr. Harri
Holkeri, whose diplomatic skills contributed decisively
to the Assembly’s work.
I want, further, to speak of the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, whose authority, dedication and
5

meaningful contribution will serve as inspiration for
the decisions that Member States must take at this
session.
Let me take this opportunity to reiterate our
satisfaction at the honour accorded to the United
Nations and to the Secretary-General through the
award of the Nobel Peace Prize. That was a well-
deserved tribute to our Organization, to the values
shared by its Member States, and, in particular, to the
Secretary General, whose personal commitment and
visionary approach have given new life to the United
Nations and have helped to consolidate its international
credibility. That decision was more than an
acknowledgement of past achievements; it provided
encouragement that inspires the work of the United
Nations in the light of the challenges of the new
millennium.
Two months ago the entire world was shaken by a
series of unprecedented terrorist acts. We have all
spoken of the dreadful effects of these attacks. We have
all expressed our solidarity to the people of the United
States. And we all agree that those irrational acts not
only affected one single country but were in fact an
attack against all mankind. But we must go even
further; we must understand why such events occurred
and what we must do to ensure that similar acts never
happen again – never again.
The tragedy of 11 September had the positive
effect of uniting us all against a common enemy:
terrorism. And it did something else: it removed the
dissembling from our words; it stripped the hypocrisy
from our discourse; it moved us out of the world of
grey tones to which we were so accustomed. Now we
must work to replace it with a black-and-white world
that is free of ambiguity.
And what were those greys that are so evident
today? They were the ambiguities we all expressed in
respect of violence and the money that finances it. In
the past, when an act against civilians anywhere in the
world suited our interests, we would speak of a
humanitarian crisis, of defending democracy, of
reasons of State. And we continued on impassively,
with a clear conscience. But when an act against
civilians anywhere did not suit our interests, we would
take a firm stand, we would react with indignation and
we would speak of terrorism, of attacks against
mankind, of treacherous attacks against democracy and
human rights.
Let there be no more ambiguity or equivocation.
The time has come to define our position, with no
vague half answers: either we side with mankind, its
dignity and its integrity, or we do not.
Whenever human dignity or civilians are
attacked, that is an act of terrorism. It does not matter
whether it is perpetrated by a group of religious
fanatics or by an organization claiming to have
political ideals. There is no pretext for attacking
defenceless civilians. The dividing line is very clear:
either we respect human life and dignity or we stand
against humankind.
The horrendous acts of 11 September do not
represent a collision of civilizations, religions or
cultures. The only collision is between a violent
fanatical minority on the one hand, and all forms of
civilization on the other. We cannot accept any further
attempts to justify violence. No matter how much it
costs us — even if it goes against our present
interests — there is something far more valuable than
anything else in the world: human life and human
dignity.
Today, we must all stand together and
unreservedly condemn all acts of violence against any
human being, regardless of the pretext. If we do not
cast our lot in favour of mankind and human values,
what will be left for us? What right will we have to call
ourselves the leaders of a civilization gone adrift?
I address the Assembly today with the
overwhelming responsibility and authority vested in me
as President of a country, Colombia, that for decades
has endured an internal conflict where every new day
brings more deaths and kidnappings because of the
intransigence of illegal groups seeking to impose
themselves at the cost of the lives of their compatriots.
And I address the Assembly today representing a
country, Colombia, that has been the main victim of
worldwide drug addiction, a country that has suffered
too many deaths, that has sacrificed natural and
financial resources to combat a crime that is not its
own. It is a global crime whose vast illegal proceeds
remain outside our borders.
In those two capacities, I address the international
community, represented in the General Assembly, to
demand, head held high, that we move from rhetoric to
action. The world is distressed by this ominous
terrorism. I say candidly that we ourselves have also
6

suffered from such terrorism for quite some time. But
we have not always felt the pulse of the international
community beating firmly by our side.
We all know that the world market for illegal
drugs is the number-one source of financing for
worldwide terrorism and death. Yet the international
community has been content simply to suggest or
demand that production centres control drug trafficking
through law enforcement and through eradication and
interdiction action, forgetting that this scourge is much
more than just a problem of cultivation and trafficking.
It is a global problem with global ramifications.
Colombia has always said, and my Government
has repeated again and again in every possible
international forum, that it is necessary to control
illegal drug production, but that we cannot forget that
this is a very complex transnational business and that
the vast proceeds of narcotics trafficking do not stay in
our country. No, indeed: those profits move freely
through international financial markets where
seemingly respectable financiers and businessmen
prosper, enjoying the tolerance of the entire world.
We must also learn from our misfortunes —
especially from our misfortunes — and we have
learned something from the events of 11 September.
We have learned that lax control of financial
institutions and the existence of tax and banking
havens are like giving criminals a letter of marque to
make and multiply their profits, to amass the fortunes
that finance death.
The shared responsibility that my country
demands in the fight against illegal drugs must also be
applied to the fight against terrorism. This new
international conviction that we have all been late in
implementing — perhaps because we are still numbed
by the so-called post-cold-war era — must be
translated into acts that go beyond rhetoric. There must
be no more coexisting with money laundering, even if
it means going after the major financial conglomerates
of the world.
There must be no more uncontrolled production
and sale of the chemical precursors used in illicit drug
production.
There must be no more illegal or uncontrolled
manufacturing and sale of the weapons that propagate
death.
Only if we, beginning with the developed
countries, translate those principles into reality, with
concrete action and with political will, will we give
meaning and effectiveness to the fight that my country,
Colombia, has been waging for many years against the
cultivation and production of drugs.
No country is free from the destructive
consequences of illegal drugs. There are no epicentres
in this illegal business. This criminal activity is global
in nature. The drug problem, and organized crime in
general, undermine the institutional framework,
conspire against democracy, compromise governance
and sow death and violence. They are a hothouse of
corruption; they erode judicial systems and they thwart
the rule of law. Shared responsibility, therefore, means
the responsibility to defend democracy, our principles
and institutions.
The year 2003 will mark five years since the
twentieth special session of the General Assembly, the
so-called world drug summit. We should now begin to
promote an in-depth review of all the accomplishments,
the obstacles encountered along the way, the new
challenges to be faced and the additional action we
must take to break, once and for all, the links that
support this global phenomenon.
But we must do so without losing ourselves in
grey tones. The commitment of the international
community must be real and concrete so that we can at
last attack the finances of the traffickers of death. Let
us combat the business in which they make all their
profits.
Fortunately, the Security Council has taken
important decisions in this regard, moving the fight
against crime in the right direction. Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001) and the measures being taken
by all the Governments of the world to combat the
financing of international terrorism are an essential
step forward that Colombia supports without hesitation.
We must work together to dismantle the structure
of the extremists’ financial support. That is the only
way to create a safer world for our children. It is the
only way to defeat the plague of violence and terrorism
at its roots: the transnational empires of drugs.
A year ago, we gathered in this same Hall on the
occasion of the Millennium Summit. None of the
priorities identified at that time was stressed as much
as the need to ensure that globalization benefits all the
7

peoples of the world. The reality of globalization is one
of inequality; it has led to dissatisfaction and conflict.
We need, through deep reflection, to become aware of
our responsibility for humanizing globalization and
ensuring that it reflects the interests of all countries and
regions.
The Conference on Financing for Development to
be held early next year in Mexico is particularly
important in this light. Unless we mobilize the
necessary financial resources and move towards a new
architecture ensuring a stable international financial
system, the commitments and the course set out at the
Millennium Summit will be a dead letter.
Those same criteria must guide next year’s World
Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg.
On that occasion, we must consolidate a positive vision
and devise a road map for achieving real harmony
between economic growth, social development and the
preservation of the environment.
This is the last time I will address the General
Assembly as President of Colombia. Each year since
1998, I have spoken before the Assembly about the
commitment of my Government and of the people of
Colombia to achieving peace, democracy and progress
in social justice.
More than any other leader of my country I have
fully devoted myself to achieving peace. I do not regret
having done that, because we Colombians are tired of
violence, intimidation, crime and kidnappings. I hope
that all groups living outside the law will make the
right choice at this crucial juncture, not only in the
history of Colombia but also in the history of all
humankind. It is up to them to decide how they want to
be treated: as terrorists and drug-traffickers or as
political insurgents. They must define themselves
through their actions. If their actions lead them to be
treated as mere terrorists, then they must clearly
understand — and I say this vehemently to the
world — that Colombia and the international
community will honour their commitments and carry
out the measures adopted by the Security Council to
combat terrorism.
History goes on; it does not stop. Leaders come
and go, but peoples continue along the path laid out
before them. Even today, I believe that peace is
possible if the will to make peace exists. I still believe,
with the firm hope of someone who knows the values
of his people, that the road we started on will not be
barren.
During my mandate, the international community
has shown an unprecedented solidarity with the people
of Colombia and its quest for peace. I am grateful for
that from the bottom of my heart.
I must give special recognition to the Secretary
General’s Special Adviser on International Assistance
to Colombia, Jan Egeland, for his assistance, and to the
generous contribution of friendly nations during the
talks with insurgent groups. The world has sided with
peace in Colombia, and that is a gesture we understand
and appreciate in its full worth.
Today I echo the strong and determined voice of
40 million Colombians, who are all fighting for a better
and more dignified life, and I reaffirm before the world
a message to the international community that proposes
and demands clarity.
The time for lamenting is over. It is time for
definitions.
Let us put aside the empty speeches. Let us leave
behind the moral double standards that measure acts
that suit us with one yardstick and the acts that do not
with another. Let us advance, united together, against
all forms of terrorism, whatever their rationales.
No more ambiguity. No more justifications of
violence. Let us never forget that there is nothing more
sacred, more valuable or worthier than human life.






"
56,2001,OMN,"﻿I wish
to express my sincere congratulations to Mr. Han
Seung-soo on his assumption of the presidency of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. We are
confident that his skills, competence and experience in
international affairs will facilitate his task of leading
and enriching the work of this session and of bringing
it to a successful conclusion with the desired results.
We assure him of our delegation’s cooperation in the
attainment of our shared objectives. We also want to
express our sincerest thanks and appreciation to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, former Prime Minister
of the friendly country of the Republic of Finland. We
thank him for his efforts in directing the work of the
last session and the various special sessions that took
place during his term.
35

I want to take this opportunity to reiterate my
sincerest congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, and to the United Nations itself on being
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. This is a well-deserved
award and a mark of distinction for the contributions
and the remarkable role played by the Secretary-
General and the United Nations in the maintenance and
the strengthening of international peace and security.
On behalf of my delegation, I also want to
express my sincere congratulations to the Secretary-
General on being granted a second term of office at the
head of the Organization. We intend to cooperate with
him in the attainment of our objectives, in the
fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter and in the preparation and
development of mechanisms for international
cooperation in all fields.
The terrible events of 11 September that struck
this city, which is host to our Organization, have been
forcefully condemned by my Government. This city
has attracted people from all over the world to a
dialogue among civilizations through our international
Organization, and it therefore deserves to be a city of
peace, not of terror and violence. We therefore take this
opportunity to express once again our sincerest
condolences to the families of the victims and to the
friendly American people, whose sorrow we share. The
world was horrified by this dangerous turn of events —
the terrorist acts that struck such vital sites in New
York and Washington, taking many lives and leaving
great destruction in their wake.
While expressing our solidarity with the friendly
country of the United States of America in its struggle
against terrorism and in the defence of its territory and
its people, and while we understand the reasons for the
military action being taken in Afghanistan, it is our
fervent hope that every effort will be made to spare
innocent civilians the destruction and disasters of war
so that they will not suffer further tragedies. For its
part, the international community must play its role in
protecting the Afghan people.
We must not forget the peaceful means of dealing
with terrorism. Every sincere effort must be made to
eliminate the scourge of terrorism, which will destroy
civilization and all the achievements of humankind if it
is not firmly confronted and if its causes are not
examined and uprooted. We stress that the use of
military force is not the best or the only solution for
eliminating terrorist groups. We appeal for a long-term
vision to prevail so that all elements of the problem can
be dealt with. In this respect, we reiterate our
welcoming of the Egyptian proposal for an
international conference on the fight against terrorism
in order to arrive at an effective, binding international
instrument for States.
In the midst of this tragedy, we have heard certain
opportunistic political circles in States and at the
international level linking terrorism to Islam and
Muslims. We fully and categorically reject this. Islam
is a religion of mercy for all, a religion based on
fraternity and tolerance. Muslims are the bearers of a
civilization, a culture and noble human and
humanitarian values. This is why the Organization of
the Islamic Conference, at its extraordinary session
held in Doha, Qatar, last October, totally dissociated
itself from all terrorism and reiterated its condemnation
of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. The
session’s final communiqué reported in paragraph 3
that the Conference
“stressed that such shameful terror acts are
opposed to the tolerant, divine message of Islam
which spurns aggression, calls for peace,
coexistence, tolerance and respect among people,
highly prizes the dignity of human life and
prohibits killing of the innocent. It further
rejected any attempts alleging the existence of
any connection or relation between the Islamic
faith and the terrorist acts as such attempts are
not in the interest of the multilateral efforts to
combat terrorism and further damage relations
among peoples of the world. It stressed as well
the need to undertake a joint effort to promote
dialogue and create links or contacts between the
Islamic world and the West in order to reach
mutual understanding and build bridges of
confidence between the two civilizations.”
In this respect, my delegation wishes to
emphasize its categorical rejection of the calls of all
those who would like to use this human disaster to
settle old scores and old political differences and to
expand the field of military action to other areas under
the pretext of fighting terrorism.
We are concerned about the humanitarian
situation of the friendly Afghan people. International
humanitarian organizations report that the military
action taking place in Afghanistan has caused hundreds
36

of civilian casualties, that hundreds of thousands have
been displaced and that the civilian population is
experiencing severe living conditions. Humanitarian
organizations have warned that a humanitarian disaster
could be imminent for the Afghan people, especially
with the approach of winter. My country supports
international efforts to provide humanitarian aid to the
Afghan people, especially through the recent resolution
adopted at the meeting of Foreign Ministers of the
Conference of the Islamic Conference with a view to
creating a fund for this purpose.
The series of difficult and painful events in the
peace process in the Middle East on all its tracks and at
all its stages, particularly regarding the Palestinian
aspect of the question, confirms that in order to arrive
at a just, comprehensive and lasting peace it is
necessary to work towards implementing Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), as well
as all other relevant United Nations resolutions that
demand the withdrawal of Israel from all Arab
territories occupied in 1967 and recognition of the
legitimate right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination and to the establishment of its own
independent State, with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its
capital. This is a basic, just and legitimate demand for
the purpose of consolidating the pillars of peace and
stability in the region. We express our full support for
these just demands of the Palestinian people who are
fully entitled to use all means available to them to put
an end to the Israeli occupation of their territory.
The Islamic countries also support the right of the
Palestinian people because of the justness of their
cause. Theirs is a legitimate right recognized and
guaranteed by all international norms and instruments.
The Sultanate of Oman invites the United Nations and
the Security Council to assume their full responsibility
to have Israel implement all relevant Security Council
and international resolutions and to stop the collective
punishment of the Palestinian people.
Following the Madrid Peace Conference, in 1991,
the region was full of hope and optimism. It seemed as
though peace were becoming a reality. Many
agreements had been reached, from Oslo to Sharm el-
Sheikh, and all the parties had embarked on dialogue
with one another in circumstances that were not ideal.
Nonetheless, despite all the missteps, peace moved
forward, because peace was the ultimate goal that
everyone eagerly sought. The Arabs believed in peace.
They had agreed to it as an irreversible strategic option
based on the principles of Islam, which advocates
tolerance and peace, and because they were convinced
that peace alone would make prosperity, stability and
development possible.
The Sultanate of Oman has therefore supported
every effort, with a view to achieving that much-
desired peace based on justice, fairness and the legality
of international resolutions and the principle of land for
peace. But Israel deviated from those principles,
inventing its own concept of peace. Israel has used
every possible means of imposing its own kind of
peace. Israel does not really want the peace that the
world is considering. Israel wants its own special kind
of peace. It wants the international community to go
along with the current reality — the occupation of
territory, without giving the Palestinians any role or a
State. This is why violence in the region is a dynamic
of action and reaction. This is why there has been
bloodshed and why life and property continue to be
destroyed. Will the world stand by and watch the
killing of innocents, the murder of the elderly and
children?
The Sultanate of Oman therefore invites the two
sponsors of the peace process — the United States of
America and the Russian Federation — and the
Secretary-General to play their role so that the situation
can return to normal and so that the peace process, in
all its aspects, can be revived and resumed from the
point where it left off.
My Government supports the just position of the
fraternal Syrian Arab Republic. Its actions are aimed at
recovering the occupied territory of the Golan Heights
and at ensuring Israel’s withdrawal to the 4 June 1967
border. In our opinion, it is in Israel’s interest to
resume the negotiations, in accordance with the
principles of international law and international
resolutions including Security Council resolutions 242
(1967) and 338 (1973), as well as the principle of land
for peace, in order to lay the foundation for peace and
security, so that an effective partnership can be built
and a lasting, stable and viable relationship based on
mutual interests among the States of the region can be
established and consolidated.
My Government also asks Israel to work towards
the full implementation of Security Council resolution
425 (1978), which calls upon Israel to withdraw from
all Lebanese territory. The Shab’a farms area is an
integral part of Lebanese territory and is covered by
37

that resolution. It is in Israel’s interest to withdraw
from that territory in order to broaden the prospects of
peace and to strengthen peace and stability, which
everyone desires.
The imposition of sanctions as a political
mechanism means that Governments must fulfil their
obligations under international resolutions. However,
we see that this policy has become a weapon that
jeopardizes the fundamental rights of peoples. This is
unacceptable. Hence, it is important that the Security
Council seek effective policies and mechanisms that
take into account the extent to which resolutions have
been implemented by the countries to which those
resolutions are addressed, such as Iraq, Libya and
others.
Despite all the serious international and regional
efforts to relieve the suffering of the fraternal Iraqi
people, we note that the overall situation in Iraq and
the future of the Iraqi people are becoming increasingly
problematic because of the economic embargo imposed
on them in 1990. That is also the view of the
humanitarian and international agencies and
organizations in Iraq.
The Sultanate of Oman supports all efforts to lift
completely the economic sanctions against Iraq. At the
same time, we call upon the Iraqi Government to
cooperate constructively with the United Nations in
order to implement the remaining relevant Security
Council resolutions, particularly regarding prisoners of
war, missing Kuwaitis and missing persons from third
States.
The Sultanate of Oman warmly welcomes the
wise approach of our brethren in Bahrain and Qatar.
Those two countries have proceeded to implement the
Judgment of the International Court of Justice of 16
March 2001. That positive approach by those two
fraternal countries has eliminated many sources of
tension and has made a genuine contribution to the
establishment of peace, security and stability in the
region.
My Government is gratified by the friendly
official contacts between the United Arab Emirates and
the Islamic Republic of Iran, which will enable those
two countries to agree on joint means to put an end to
their dispute over the three islands belonging to the
Emirates.
The political, economic, social and cultural
changes taking place in today’s world mean that
African countries and their leaders must work hard to
build trust among their peoples and their countries so
that they can cooperate on the basis of common interest
and constructive dialogue and so that they can take
local measures and initiatives to resolve all their
disputes and to solve the refugee problem. We call on
the international community, as represented by the
United Nations, to take equitable measures to improve
the situation in Africa and to make it possible to
resolve its political, economic, social and health
problems.
Because of the great importance that the
Sultanate of Oman attaches to development, we are
pleased that the first International Conference on
Financing for Development will take place in Mexico
in 2002 and that this date is in the near future. We
appreciate the value of dialogue between the rich
countries of the North and the countries of the South
that are bedevilled by social and environmental
problems, and we hope that contacts and dialogue
between the two groups will increase genuine
cooperation and coordination among States in all
fields, with a view to narrowing the economic and
technological gap between their peoples.
Over the past 30 years of Oman’s development
process, my Government has constantly worked to
balance development and environmental protection.
Such efforts have been successful thanks to His
Majesty the Sultan’s declaration of 2001 as the Year of
the Environment. In the framework of our contribution
and of our interest in global environmental issues, we
have pledged that we will sign all conventions and
treaties aimed at protecting the Earth’s environment.
My country today appeals to developed countries to
meet the commitments they undertook at the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development,
held at Rio de Janeiro, especially with respect to the
provision of technical assistance to developing
countries.
In the light of the importance of integration into
the world economy, my country officially joined the
World Trade Organization on 9 November 2000. We
hope thus to enhance the role and the level of our trade
and industrial organizations and services and to ensure
that they are duly integrated into world markets. My
country has undertaken great economic reforms to
liberalize trade and investment. We have also enacted
38

many laws and have strengthened our mechanisms and
regulations in these areas.
I should mention that, on 20 December 2000 at
New York, the Sultanate of Oman signed the Rome
Statute of the International Criminal Court. We hope to
complete the ratification process and thus to accede to
this new organ of international law, which is aimed at
bringing to justice those who violate human rights and
commit crimes against humanity, wherever they may
be.
We thank the Secretary-General for his annual
report on the work of the Organization (A/56/1). It sets
out the achievements of the United Nations while
describing the obstacles in its way, and it charts a
course for the future to strengthen our work towards
the purposes for which the United Nations was
established. In his report, the Secretary-General also
discusses the implementation of the Millennium
Declaration and its ambitious recommendations. We
must be ready now to endorse visions that would
strengthen the United Nations and restructure it in line
with current realities. That includes enlargement of the
Security Council in a manner proportionate to the
overall membership of the international community. In
that way the Organization can serve as an effective
intermediary in international life and a source of
international law.
It is our hope that this session will be successful,
and that it will set out a vision of the future that will
define the contours of future action for the benefit of
all mankind.
"
56,2001,AFG,"﻿At the outset, on
behalf of the Government of the Islamic State of
Afghanistan, and on my own behalf, I wish to express
my profound condolences to the Government of the
United States of America and the American nation, as
well as the families that lost their loved ones in the
unfortunate crash of American Airlines flight 857
yesterday.
My delegation is very much delighted at Mr. Han
Seung-soo’s assumption of the presidency of the fifty-
sixth session of the General Assembly and remains
assured that his able conduct will lead the work of this
session to its desired end.
My delegation is also very pleased at Secretary-
General Kofi Annan’s meritorious winning of the
Noble Peace Prize this year, I wish to warmly
congratulate him and his fellow recipient of the prize,
the United Nations itself.
I am very thankful to all delegations that have
mentioned the name and the case of Afghanistan and
the need for international help to reach Afghanistan.
The appalling events of 11 September and the
somewhat lesser-known event of 9 September — the
33

assassination by suicidal killers of the great Afghan
leader Ahmad Shah Massoud — have changed the
world. The United Nations, the international
community and the world at large are focusing on a
new war, the war on terrorism. My Government and the
people of Afghanistan denounced the terrorist attacks
against the United States and continue to denounce
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We
ourselves have been captives and hostages of terrorism
longer than most. In fact, during 23 years of war in
Afghanistan, Muslim Afghans have not engaged in any
terrorist acts. Islam is an integral part of life in
Afghanistan and teaches justice and respect for human
life and glorifies the dignity of human beings.
I quote from the Holy Koran: “We have bestowed
dignity on the children of Adam”. (The Holy Koran,
XVII:70)
Islam, in the tradition of the Abrahamic faiths,
places great emphasis on peace, compassion and the
value of human life. Thus, Islam should be recognized
for the principles upon which it was created and not
acts resulting from irresponsible interpretations, which
are far from genuine Islam. These irresponsible
interpretations are based on primitive and sectarian
thinking, especially the retrogressive policies against
women, which have no place in Islam.
With the strong, broad global coalition on their
side, today the people of Afghanistan have been
vindicated in their righteous struggle against terrorism
and extremism — a struggle pursued single-handedly
but valiantly over the past seven years against the
terrorist forces of the Taliban mercenaries and their
cross-border and international allies, chief among them
since 1996 being Osama bin Laden’s Al Qaeda terrorist
organization.
In this most trying time, when the people of
Afghanistan are being liberated from the rule of the
Taliban, and when Taliban forces are fleeing strategic
cities across our land, including the capital, Kabul, it is
evident that the civilian inhabitants of these cities and
the people of Afghanistan as a whole, having offered
their support to the liberating forces of the Islamic
State of Afghanistan’s United Front, are deserving in
the fullest measure of a Government to which their
welfare can be soundly entrusted.
On Tuesday, 13 November, in a series of events
rapidly taking shape in and around Kabul, the Taliban
mercenaries and their terrorist allies were thought to be
holding ground, but abandoned the city in a hasty
manner, causing a power vacuum.
With the capital, Kabul, on the verge of chaos and
mayhem, the Government forces were left with no
option but to dispatch a limited police force to the city.
The decision to police the city preceded eyewitness
reports of the looting of National Bank assets and the
plundering of the city’s main currency market and a
number of aid agencies by the retreating Taliban forces.
We deeply regret any ill treatment of individuals
that may have occurred in isolated cases. We have
ordered our security authorities not only to refrain from
but to actively investigate any such acts that may have
been committed and to prevent such incidents from
taking place in the future. Let me reiterate that our
desire for peace for all people in our land remains firm
and that we will not, now or later, condone any lawless
acts aimed at disrupting the crucial process of
instituting a broad-based, multi-ethnic and fully
representative Government in Afghanistan, as called
for by the United Nations and the entire international
community.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan hails the new
developments as a victory not only for the people of
Afghanistan but also for the international community in
our shared campaign against terrorism.
Let me assure the Assembly that the recent
gaining of ground by the forces of the Islamic State of
Afghanistan’s United Front in Kabul in no way reflects
an intention on the part of the Government of the
Islamic State of Afghanistan to monopolize power.
Rather, it is our sincere hope that the people of
Afghanistan will decide democratically in the near
future what form of political system they desire. In this
context, we steadfastly support United Nations
resolutions on Afghanistan, and thereby the
recommendations made by the Secretary-General’s
special envoys to Afghanistan, Ambassador Lakhdar
Brahimi and Ambassador Francesc Vendrell, and will
do our utmost for the implementation of the process.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan fully honours its
agreement made in Rome with the representatives of
the Rome process, led by the former King of
Afghanistan, Mohammed Zahir Shah, and remains
committed to its implementation.
Today Afghanistan finds itself in a major
humanitarian crisis — a crisis such as the world has not
34

witnessed in recent times. With winter approaching our
people are facing famine. Our people will die because
they do not have enough food to sustain them through
the winter. Many aid agencies began leaving
Afghanistan after it became evident that the bombing
campaign would begin.
Over the past several years, tens of thousands of
civilians have either fled the country or have been
internally displaced. The people of Afghanistan are not
asking for a favour. They desire first and foremost to
return to the position they were in before 1978 — a
level playing field where they can govern themselves
and grow. Twenty million landmines, a ruined and
almost non-existent infrastructure and a very high
illiteracy rate do not make for a level playing field.
Even a fraction of the benefits bestowed on the
international community by Afghan sacrifices can
reconstruct our nation.
Today we are charged with finding a solution for
Afghanistan, even as problems continue to increase and
change on a day-to-day basis. But we must now, not
later, think about the people of Afghanistan and about
giving them peace after so many years of war.
A broad-based Government, inter alia, through
the Loya Jirga — Grand Assembly — must be
established. All ethnic groups must be equitably and
adequately represented and given voice in this broad-
based Government. The Hazaras, Pashtuns, Tajiks,
Uzbeks, Aimaks, Turkmen, Baluchis and all other
ethnic groups of Afghanistan must have fair
representation in this broad-based Government.
All these groups make up what Afghanistan is
today, and Afghanistan is not complete without any of
these groups. For centuries, all of these groups have
lived peacefully among themselves without bloodshed,
and each one has contributed to Afghanistan and has
sacrificed tremendously in the resistance against
repeated foreign occupations. For centuries, all these
groups, as a united people, resisted foreign hegemonic
forces. History has shown that Afghanistan is not for
foreign occupation or conquest.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan’s United Front
wants the rule of law based on Islamic tenets,
pluralistic democracy, fundamental human rights,
peace, unification and meaningful reconstruction. At
our core we wish to uphold human rights for all
peoples of our land — men and women. We desire to
abide by United Nations resolutions, the rule of law
and recognized international norms and principles. We
highly appreciate the efforts being made by the United
Nations aimed at finding a solution for Afghanistan
and support all United Nations endeavours and
measures to combat international terrorism.
The future Government of Afghanistan must not
be subjected any more to the unilateralism that has
blanketed it for so long. The nation of Afghanistan
must have, as any nation must have, the respect of and
sincere cooperation with its neighbours. The future
Government of Afghanistan must not be reduced to a
“sphere of influence”; it must be recognized as a
sovereign nation in the truest sense. Self-determination
for Afghanistan means that no country of the world
should have a veto concerning what the Afghans decide
for themselves.
Recognition of the principles of mutual respect,
non-interference and full sovereignty of Afghanistan
will naturally be followed by economic and
commercial cooperation. Hence, a sovereign
Afghanistan will deploy all efforts to broaden its
relations with all of its neighbours, including Pakistan.
Such measures as opening up to Pakistan and opening
up key transit routes, from north to south and from east
to west, ought to be implemented. Afghanistan has to
broaden its economic relations with all neighbouring
countries. The crossroads at the heart of Asia is
situated in Afghanistan, and our country’s economic
and international development rests largely in utilizing
this resource in a progressive and open manner.
I need not remind Members today that a stable
Afghanistan means a stable Pakistan and a stable
Central Asia. An ignored and ruined Afghanistan
would be a calamity for the entire region and the whole
world.
The people of Afghanistan must decide what
form of Government they desire. No one ethnic group
must dominate and no neighbour of Afghanistan has
the right to incite, overtly or covertly, one ethnic group
against others. It is time for the people of Afghanistan
to think about their future and to come together. They
must all work together for their country as they have
worked for centuries before. It is my aspiration and the
aspiration of every Afghan that normalcy will be
restored and that we will live in peace.
We, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and we, the
United Nations and the international community, have
a duty to rebuild Afghanistan. There must be an
35

extensive and comprehensive United Nations-led
reconstruction plan for Afghanistan. The international
community must take the reconstruction of Afghanistan
as seriously as it takes the war on terrorism. I submit
that reconstruction and a people’s hope will do more to
eradicate evils such as terrorism and the seeds of
terrorism than war can perhaps ever do.
Rehabilitation must begin with addressing
humanitarian problems, including the pressing crisis of
internally displaced persons and refugees. The longer-
term Afghan reconstruction programme must be
comprehensive; under such a programme, facilities of
all kinds — roads, bridges, hospitals and schools and
universities for boys and girls — must be
reconstructed. Girls were purposely made illiterate by
the Taliban mercenaries. A massive education effort
must be undertaken so that our young people can learn
skills and grow up to be a new generation for our
country. The 20 million landmines must be cleared so
that the people can cultivate their land and not have to
rely only on poppies to make a living.
In the Afghan reconstruction programme there
must be a programme for orphans and widows. The
Afghan reconstruction programme must directly help
the war-stricken and war-devastated land and people of
Afghanistan. Afghans of the diaspora, from all over the
world, must come and take part in the Afghan
reconstruction programme and help build their country.
I believe that, with the help of almighty God, we
can rebuild Afghanistan and that Afghanistan can once
again live in peace with its neighbours and can
contribute to the prosperity of the international
community.
In conclusion, I appeal to the United Nations and
to the international community to adopt a new vision
for Afghanistan, a vision that will leave behind the
death and destruction that has seized its people for so
many years, a vision that embraces tolerance and unity,
a vision that will rebuild the spirit of Afghanistan and
give hope for peace to each and every person of our
land. The change must come from each person who
calls himself a Muslim and an Afghan; it must also
come from each country that calls itself a friend of
Afghanistan. Our friends and neighbours must grant us
the goodwill to govern ourselves and to be our own
people.







"
56,2001,BWA,"﻿Before I deliver my
statement, please allow me to express the heartfelt
condolences of my delegation to the Governments of
the United States of America and the Dominican
Republic and to the families of the victims of the tragic
air traffic accident in New York on Monday. During
this time of grief and sadness, our sympathies are with
those who lost their loved ones.
It is with great pleasure that I extend to the
President and his country, the Republic of Korea, the
warmest congratulations of my delegation on his
election to the presidency of the United Nations
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. We are
confident that under his able leadership, we will have a
very productive session. The President can rest assured
of the full cooperation of the delegation of Botswana in
the discharge of the noble task entrusted to him.
I should also like to pay tribute to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland. The skilful
manner in which he guided our deliberations during the
fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly speaks for
his wealth of diplomatic experience and diligence in
his work.
To our Secretary-General, may I express the full
support and confidence of my delegation as he begins a
second term of office. We congratulate him for the
highly esteemed Nobel Peace Prize for 2001, bestowed
jointly on him and the United Nations system. This
special award is not only to the Secretary-General,
personally, but also to the many dedicated men and
women who continue to work tirelessly for the United
Nations system.
It is regrettable that even as we are assembled
here to forge a common future within the same walls
where just 12 months ago our leaders proclaimed the
arrival of a brave new world full of hope and promise,
our attention should be drawn to acts of international
terrorism not far from where we are meeting.
My delegation wishes to add its voice to those of
other speakers who have condemned, in the strongest
language possible, the bombings that occurred in New
York and Washington, resulting in a huge loss of
human life. Immediately after learning of these attacks,
my Government issued a statement in which we
condemned these terrorist attacks and those who
conceived and perpetrated them. A unified and
concerted effort is required from the international
community in order to wipe the scourge of
international terrorism from the face of the earth, once
and for all.
7

Among other things, we need to reaffirm our
commitment to the full implementation of all
conventions on combating terrorism. My delegation is
convinced that the international community
collectively has the resources necessary to win the war
against terrorism. This is a challenge of our age.
The other major challenge that presents
extraordinary danger to humanity is the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, whose devastating impact on our societies
and our economies, particularly in Africa, is well
documented.
According to recent estimates, of the 36.1 million
people living with HIV globally, 25.3 million are in
sub-Saharan Africa. Of the 5.3 million people infected
with the virus during 2000, 3.8 million were in sub-
Saharan Africa. Of the 3.0 million people who died of
HIV/AIDS in 2000, 2.4 million were in sub-Saharan
Africa. These statistics present an extremely grim
picture of the HIV/AIDS situation in sub-Saharan
Africa. As delegates are no doubt aware, my country is
one of the worst affected on the continent. Unless we
join forces to tackle this pandemic, it will continue to
have a devastating impact on our societies and
economies. Funding for the HIV/AIDS programmes is
grossly inadequate and has to be increased in order to
mitigate the impact of the scourge.
Indeed, the twenty-sixth special session of the
United Nations General Assembly underscored the
imperative of intensified global action to combat the
pandemic. The Global HIV/AIDS and Health Fund
could not have come at a more opportune time. It is our
sincere hope, therefore, that the donor community will
respond positively to the financing of the trust fund.
I want to stress the need to strengthen the role of
the United Nations in this fight. Our efforts for the
prevention and treatment of the disease need to be
augmented and strengthened by concrete measures of
support and resources from the international
community if we are to turn the tide of the spread of
HIV/AIDS.
The third issue I wish to highlight is that of
“conflict diamonds” versus “development diamonds”.
Botswana deplores the fact that diamond resources in a
number of countries in Africa are being plundered by
rebels to purchase weapons that are used to cause
enormous suffering to innocent people.
However, I want to underscore the fact that
“conflict diamonds” constitute only 4 per cent or less
of the world trade in diamonds. Legitimate, conflict-
free diamonds, such as those produced in my country,
are used to generate socio-economic growth and
development. I am glad that the contribution of
conflict-free diamonds to the economic growth of
countries such as mine, and indeed of other countries in
Southern Africa, is being appreciated.
We have been active participants in the Kimberly
Process, in which Governments of diamond-producing
countries of Southern Africa and other interested
Governments, the diamond industry and civil society
organizations are working together to institute a
certification scheme designed to eliminate that small
percentage of conflict diamonds from world trade. We
sincerely want to see the suffering inflicted upon the
people of Angola, Sierra Leone, the Democratic
Republic of Congo and others brought to an end.
Regrettably, many more countries in our
continent continue to be torn apart by war and conflict.
We applaud the efforts of the United Nations and other
international players to enhance the capacity of African
countries to prevent conflict and maintain peace and
stability in the continent. We are convinced that the
determination of many in Africa to consolidate
democracy will go a long way towards ensuring that
conditions of security and stability are instituted
throughout the continent. The establishment of the
African Union, which will be launched next year in the
Republic of South Africa, is the most positive
expression of a new solidarity, based on an urgent
search for collective economic security and political
partnership. Without underestimating the hurdles we
still face as we move our continent towards integration,
it is our fervent belief that an era of hope has been
ushered in on our continent.
The most talked about undertaking by Africa in
recent weeks has been the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development (NEPAD), which is aimed at achieving
socio-economic development by alleviating poverty as
well as promoting peace, security, democracy and good
governance. Unlike other initiatives that came before
it, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development
challenges African countries to take primary
responsibility for their own development by ushering in
a political environment guaranteeing peace, security
and stability, respect for human rights, democratic
principles and the rule of law.
8

The initiative underscores the need for a policy
framework and, indeed, regulatory structures that will
enhance governance in Africa. I must say, all of these
are achievable objectives, and we as a continent have
unreservedly committed ourselves, our Governments
and peoples, and the required resources to their
attainment. We also believe that the initiative will
usher in a new concept of technical cooperation
between Africa and our development partners, and that
the United Nations will have a critical role to play in
its implementation.
My delegation attaches importance to the
International Conference on Financing for
Development, scheduled to be held in Mexico in the
spring of 2002, and the forthcoming World Summit on
Sustainable Development, to be held in South Africa in
September 2002. These Conferences will offer us an
opportunity to examine issues of development in a
holistic and pragmatic manner. Issues of environment,
trade, domestic policy-making, international
cooperation and partnership with the Bretton Woods
institutions, as well as the private sector, will have to
feature prominently at these conferences.
Recent developments in Sierra Leone give us
hope that peace will now be given a chance in that
country. The agreement between the Government
and the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), which will
see the latter transformed into a political party, is a
major achievement and an important step forward. The
RUF must now translate its promises into action,
because this is the only way that the international
community will be able to provide the much needed
support for the holding of the envisaged national
elections, which will provide the basis for the
restoration of peace and stability in Sierra Leone.
There is a real window of opportunity for peace
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. After many
years of bloody conflict, which has inflicted immense
suffering on the people of the Congo, the political
players and other stakeholders have embarked on a
national dialogue that should bring peace to the
country. I would like to underline the fact that
dedication and perseverance will be required on the
part of those concerned in order for the inter-Congolese
dialogue to be crowned with success. We therefore urge
the players to see the process of negotiations through,
because the alternative is to slide back down into the
suffering and misery that the Congolese have endured
for so long. I also wish to call upon the international
community to provide the necessary support and
resources to the Office of the Facilitator, former
President Sir Ketumile Masire, to enable the
facilitation process of the inter-Congolese dialogue to
succeed.
The peace process in Burundi is moving in the
right direction after many years of painful war. The
deal brokered by former President Mandela has
provided a way out of the stalemate. The resolve of the
parties to remain committed to the peace process is the
only way forward.
We continue to be concerned that prospects for
peace in Angola remain distant. At the heart of the
impasse are UNITA’s continuing acts of destabilization
and sabotage. UNITA must understand that there can
be no military solution to the crisis in Angola. We
therefore wish to appeal to UNITA to reconsider its
position and choose the path of dialogue.
My delegation is seriously concerned at the
recent escalation of violence in the Middle East. It is
our sincere hope that the Government of Israel and the
Palestinian Authority will recognize the urgent need to
resume negotiations towards a comprehensive peace
agreement. A lasting solution to this problem is
essential.
In conclusion, let me reaffirm my country’s
commitment to the purposes and principles of the
United Nations Charter. We are committed to working
with others to strengthen this Organization in order to
surmount the challenges that face us all as nations and
peoples across the globe. The United Nations is our
only hope for a stable and prosperous world.



"
56,2001,ALB,"﻿This
year's session of the General Assembly is marked by
profound sadness over the innocent victims of the
macabre acts perpetrated by terrorists two months ago
here in the United States of America, and now also by
the events of this morning. On behalf of the
Government and the people of Albania, I would like to
express our utter indignation and our strongest and
categorical condemnation of those acts, which were
aimed not at a single country but, rather, were a serious
attack on the values of democracy, freedom and world
civilization. At the same time, I would like to convey
our deepest sympathy to the American people and to all
the families that lost loved ones in those tragic events.
International terrorism is today becoming one of
the greatest challenges for the world in which we live.
It is essential that the international community tackle
this phenomenon with the greatest seriousness, for it is
replete with catastrophic consequences in many areas.
Albania considers the military actions of the anti-
terrorism coalition led by the United States and Great
Britain against the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and
the Al Qaeda terrorist group, under the leadership of
bin Laden, to be just and in full conformity with
Chapter VII of the Charter and Security Council
resolutions. Taking that into account, and as a country
that defends the values of liberty and democracy,
Albania expressed its determination to be part of that
coalition from the outset.
The international action that has just begun
against terrorism should not be seen as a clash between
civilizations. On the contrary, we Albanians see it as a
struggle between good and evil and as a confrontation
in which the values of humanism and peace are set
against obscurantism and the negation of values. The
only way to win this war is for all of our countries to
unite their forces to create a common front, to take
increasingly Draconian preventive measures at the
national level, and to deploy ways and means for
cooperation at the bilateral and multilateral levels to
block any individual terrorist or terrorist group that
threatens international peace and security. For its part,
with the mechanisms at its disposal, the United Nations
could and should do more to coordinate those efforts.
Albania welcomes the measures taken by the
United Nations to respond to acts of terrorism. We
strongly support Security Council resolution 1373
2

(2001) and call on all Member States to fulfil their
obligations under the resolution. We also support the
current efforts aimed at completing the United Nations
legal framework for coordination and for the
international community's efforts to combat terrorism.
For its part, Albania is already a party to eight major
international conventions on the struggle against
terrorism. We shall soon adhere to six more
conventions.
The new Albanian Government's four-year
programme has set very clear objectives to definitively
take the country out of its long transition stage and
place it on the path towards stable economic
development, the consolidation of its democratic
institutions and legal framework, and integration into
the European family. Thanks to sustained efforts,
Albania has already established an encouraging climate
for individual Albanian entrepreneurship as well as for
foreign investment.
Moreover, Albanian institutions will keep the
struggle against terrorism, organized crime, illegal
trafficking and corruption at the centre of their
activities. The responsible commitment of the country's
leaders to an uncompromising struggle against those
phenomena, as well as their cooperation with other
countries in the region and beyond, has in most cases
kept in check the activities of criminal elements who
seek to exploit Albania as a transit country for various
types of illegal trafficking.
Albania believes that a mosaic of fledging
democracies is already taking shape in the Balkans,
albeit with difficulties. Believing that domestic
political and economic stability are intrinsically linked
to regional stability, Albania has committed itself to
applying a regional policy of good-neighbourliness
towards all Balkan countries, and has already given
concrete proof of that desire. One clear sign of that
policy was the re-establishment of diplomatic relations
with the Belgrade Government at the beginning of the
year. That was a logical follow-up to the democratic
developments begun in the Republic of Serbia that led
to results that were eagerly awaited by the whole of the
international community, namely, the fall of the
Milosević regime and his dispatch to the Tribunal at
The Hague. The same fate should also befall the other
criminals who carried out the policy of genocide and
ethnic cleansing he planned.
On behalf of peace and stability in the region, as
well as on behalf of good-neighbourliness, Albania has
adopted a realistic attitude, even with regard to the
most recent crisis in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. The position we adopted was very much
appreciated by the international community.
The Albanian Government welcomed the Ochrid
framework Agreement between the Macedonian
authorities and the Albanian political forces, and we
hope that it will soon be implemented in a
comprehensive manner, as this would contribute to
peace and stability in Macedonia and in the region. We
also warmly welcome the indispensable role of, and the
efforts made by, international mediators, which led to
the signing of the Agreement, as well as the
commitment of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) and the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to ensure its
implementation on the ground.
The Albanian State has good relations of
cooperation with Kosovo, and we greatly appreciate the
positive developments that have taken place there. The
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in
Kosovo, and Mr. Haekkerup personally, have taken a
number of very important steps in order to finalize the
legal framework for Kosovo and to organize the
general elections, which will be held on 17 November.
The elections will represent an important chapter
in the history of Kosovo and of the region, because this
will be the first time in their history that the people of
Kosovo will be electing, in a free and democratic
manner, democratic Government bodies that will take
charge of the future of Kosovo. We would like to
express our sincere hope that the Serb minority and the
other minorities living in Kosovo will participate in
these elections, because we consider them to be an
integral part of Kosovar society.
Although I do not wish to speak at great length
about the many problems that are facing Kosovo, I
would simply like to appeal to the international
community to actively seek a solution to the issue of
divided Mitrovica. Practices aimed at averting inter-
ethnic conflict in Kosovo such as compromises in the
area of territorial compensation based on the concept of
parcelling out its territory, and the establishment of
parallel institutions, are harmful and should be
3

deplored. They will not benefit Kosovo. They will
simply give rise to a fresh surge of the inter-ethnic
hatred that was fuelled by Milosevic. The international
community and the active political forces in Kosovo
must make every effort to build a new and open society
that respects ethnic, religious and cultural diversity.
Albania has established good relations of
cooperation with the countries in the region, both
bilaterally and multilaterally. It has endeavoured to
play its part in contributing to peace and stability in the
Balkans, including through the framework of the
Southeast Europe Cooperation Process, whose
chairmanship Albania currently holds. In the
framework of this initiative, Albania will play an even
more active role in coordinating the efforts of member
States with a view to strengthening multilateral
cooperation in all areas, in order to overcome the crises
and problems of the region.
The Albanian Government will continue with this
commitment over the next four years. It will work also
within the framework of other regional initiatives,
where one of our important commitments is to
implement joint infrastructure projects in the
framework of the Stability Pact for South-eastern
Europe.
Like the other countries of the region, Albania
has embraced with enthusiasm the process of
integration into Euro-Atlantic bodies, as its strategic
objective and principal priority is to become a member
of the European Union.
The Albanian Government welcomed the decision
taken last June by the Gˆteborg Summit to begin in the
near future the process of negotiations for the signing
of a stabilization and association agreement. The
Albanian Government hopes that these negotiations
will be concluded as soon as possible and that the
agreement will be signed within the next year. We are
aware that this will require coordination and
cooperation at all Government levels in order for us to
be able to meet the political, economic, social and
other standards emanating from this process.
We are convinced that integration has to start at
home and that we will have to do more to achieve the
results required by the European Union in all areas,
particularly when it comes to progress in effecting
reform, and especially in terms of consolidating our
legal system, harmonizing our legislation with the
existing body of community agreements, and the
carrying out of effective macro- and micro-economic
policies.
Joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) is one of Albania's strategic objectives.
Thanks to its close relationship with the Euro-Atlantic
Alliance in the last few years, it is one of the nine
countries that the Alliance has designated as being
potential candidates for NATO membership.
Today humanity is facing both new and old
threats. Conflicts between States; inter-ethnic conflicts;
terrorism and organized crime; widespread poverty and
the wide gap that exists between the poor and the rich
countries, including the digital divide; natural disasters
and the drying up of energy resources; diseases such as
AIDS and other epidemic illnesses, and those spread by
bioterrorism, have long been the subject of study in the
international community. Current developments
throughout the world have shown, now more than ever,
the vital importance and the crucial role of the United
Nations in achieving peace and security and in
fostering development throughout the world.
The Millennium Summit showed yet again that it
is essential for each State Member of our Organization
to maintain an ongoing commitment to contribute to
resolving regional and international conflicts and
tensions and to address such challenges as
globalization, poverty, HIV/AIDS, drugs, and the
achievement of sustainable development.
But beyond these challenges, the United Nations
is facing a multitude of problems related to its reform.
It must manage its resources even better so that they
can be used as much as possible for peacekeeping and
for development projects in all of the poor countries,
the countries in transition and the developing countries.
The United Nations should also become as
representative a body as possible.
Finally, the United Nations must devise and
implement wholeheartedly mechanisms that are not
bureaucratic or complex but streamlined and effective,
in order to ensure that its activities become more
concrete and bear more fruit and that its voice carries
the highest authority throughout the world.

"
56,2001,NIC,"﻿Before I
proceed, allow me, on behalf of the people and the
Government of Nicaragua, to express our sorrow to the
people and the Government of the Dominican Republic
for yesterday’s event. Allow me also, Mr. President, to
join those who have come before me in congratulating
you on your well-deserved election as President of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, and to
express my confidence that under your competent
direction this session will conclude its work
successfully. I also wish to express our most profound
appreciation for the praiseworthy work achieved by the
outgoing President, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland.
Likewise, I wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, not only for having been re-
elected to a second mandate with the consensus of the
entire international community, but also for the recent,
well-deserved, high distinction of being awarded,
together with the United Nations, the Nobel Peace
Prize.
The people and the Government of Nicaragua
received with great concern the news of the criminal
terrorist attacks against the people and the Government
of the United States on 11 September. Since then, we
have offered our solidarity and cooperation to the
people and the Government of the United States for the
capture and punishment of all those involved in those
abhorrent acts. The magnitude of those terrorist acts
brings new and diverse challenges in the political,
economic and security areas. The enemies of peace and
democracy have attempted to create a widespread
5

climate of uncertainty and fear. For this reason, our
first challenge is not to allow ourselves to be
intimidated or paralysed by their criminal threats and
actions.
At the Central American level, on 19 September
in Honduras, the Presidents of the isthmus adopted a
Declaration entitled “Central America united against
terrorism”, in which we strongly condemned any ties
between groups or sectors in the Central American
region and international terrorism. As of that date, we
began to undertake concrete initiatives aimed at
improving information systems between neighbouring
countries; increasing coordination between air and
naval forces to deal with illicit traffic; ensuring better
border monitoring; enabling the exchange of
information between specialized public security
agencies; increasing control over travel documents; and
strengthening security for airports and civil aviation.
Nicaragua is a party to those measures and
provisions that promote and safeguard international
and regional peace and security through the prevention
and peaceful resolution of disputes between States and
the non-proliferation of nuclear and conventional
weapons of mass destruction, which contravene the
principles of international humanitarian law.
Our firm commitment to world peace and security
led my country to host the Third Meeting of the States
Parties to the Ottawa Convention, despite the fact that
that meeting took place soon after the events of 11
September. The Managua Conference allowed the
States parties to renew their commitment and to note
with satisfaction the important progress that has been
made in the crusade to eliminate anti-personnel
landmines. The ratification of the Convention by more
than 120 States; the strengthening of the mechanisms
for its implementation; the progress in mine removal;
the destruction of mines stockpiled in different parts of
the world; and the virtual embargo on the international
trade in these weapons are concrete steps in our effort
to end the suffering brought about by antipersonnel
mines.
I would like to earnestly appeal to the States that
have not yet done so to ratify the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, as well as the Convention for
the Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines. Nicaragua
also welcomes with satisfaction the Programme of
Action to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit trade
in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects,
adopted on 21 July.
Just one year ago, we convened the Millennium
Summit, at which we made commitments designed to
meet the challenges of the twenty-first century and
reaffirmed our faith in the United Nations as the central
instrument for promoting peace, security, prosperity
and justice.
In order to respond effectively to the challenges
that the new millennium imposes on us — challenges
that cannot be ignored — it is crucial that we take
resolute steps to reform the United Nations, ensuring
that its policies and structures are commensurate with
the realities and aspirations of contemporary
international society. Nicaragua shares the interest of
all Member States in strengthening our Organization so
as to optimize its work in the maintenance of
international peace and security, conflict prevention,
the promotion of sustainable development and the
battle against poverty.
In this context, it is crucial to move forward with
reform of the Security Council so that that body can
respond fully and effectively to current needs and to
future challenges to our peoples.
Furthermore, the profound changes experienced
by societies throughout the world since 1945 require
the United Nations urgently to reaffirm its universal
vocation as a fundamental prerequisite for confronting
new challenges through the full and effective
participation of all peoples, without distinction and
excluding no one.
However, this universal vocation cannot be fully
realized as long as a democratic State and signatory of
the San Francisco Charter is unable to participate as a
full-fledged Member within the United Nations system.
As is well known, the Republic of China is a
democratic country, and its freely and transparently
elected Government is the only one that can
legitimately represent the interests and desires of the
people of Taiwan at the United Nations. We should not
continue to deny the 23 million people who live in the
Republic of China the right to be represented in the
United Nations and to share with us the efforts to
promote peace and development for future generations.
Let us recall that the Republic of China has
played a positive role in the promotion of world trade,
the eradication of poverty and the advancement of
6

human rights. These laudable efforts at the national and
international levels must be recognized by the United
Nations; the Republic of China should be given the
right to integrate itself into the international order of
the United Nations, having fulfilled the basic
conditions in accordance with international law.
Since the beginning of my mandate in 1997, we
Nicaraguans have taken significant steps in the
important task of consolidating democracy and guiding
our country along the path of development. The
Nicaraguan people have made great sacrifices in laying
the foundations of sustainable human development by
strengthening the rule of law; stabilizing the economy
through the implementation of responsible financial
and fiscal policies; providing for the effective
participation of civil society in national decision-
making; and formulating a long-term strategy in the
battle against poverty and for reducing economic,
social and environmental vulnerability. That process,
however, has not been easy, because of the heavy
burden of our external national debt, international
financial crises, the fall in the price of our main export
products and natural disasters.
The elections held in my country on 4 November
will go down in national history as an example of
transparency, public spirit and profound democratic
conviction. The orderly and transparent way in which
the process unfolded, broad citizen participation, with
fewer than 10 per cent of the population failing to take
part, and the attitude of the people of Nicaragua reflect
of the degree to which my country has progressed in
strengthening its democratic institutions.
We strongly support the convening of the World
Summit on Sustainable Development to take place in
Johannesburg, South Africa, in September 2002, the
task of which will be to determine the current status of
the implementation of the commitments undertaken at
the Earth Summit. As a reflection of that will, we note
our ratification of the Conventions on Climate Change
and Biological Diversity, the efforts carried out by the
National Council for Sustainable Development and
Nicaragua’s participation in major projects for the
preservation of the rich ecosystems of the region, such
as the Meso-American Biological Corridor and the
Atlantic Biological Corridor.
The new problems and challenges that humanity
faces greatly exceed our individual capabilities as
States. For that reason, it is imperative that we renew
our commitment to the goals and principles of the
United Nations, which will allow us to continue to
advance in the building of a world that is more just,
peaceful and secure for future generations.





"
56,2001,IRQ,"﻿I am glad to
extend to you, Sir, my congratulations on your election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at this
important session. We are fully confident that you will
guide its work to complete success. I am also pleased
to congratulate the Secretary General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
on his re-election to a second term of office.
This session of the General Assembly acquires
special importance given that it is being held at a time
when the international family is facing increasingly
serious problems. The deterioration of the international
political and economic environment has reached an
alarming point, threatening the very core of the
individual and collective security of the Member States
and the future of humanity as a whole.
Instability in international relations has increased
as a result of the unilateral management of
international affairs on the basis of the law of brute
force. There has been a proliferation of such
phenomena as the unilateral use of force, infringement
of international law and the Charter, political
blackmail, blockades and violation of peoples’ rights to
determine their own political, economic and social
choices. The suffering of the peoples of developing
countries has increased as a result of the lack of
economic and social development and the widespread
tendencies among wealthy nations to impose their
economic hegemony and technical and scientific
blockades under the guise of globalization. Attempts
are increasing to impose certain cultures on the peoples
of the world, heaping scorn on their religious beliefs,
creeds and political and social choices and preaching
the clash of civilizations and the launching of new
crusades.
It was in these circumstances that the events of 11
September took place in the United States, with all the
ensuing suffering and victims. While we have offered
our sincere condolences to the American people and
the families of the innocent victims of these events,
Iraq has expressed its hope that the United States will
deal with these events in a spirit of wisdom and
responsibility by undertaking a comprehensive review
of its policies towards other peoples and States with a
view to finding ways to ensure security, stability and
peace for the people of the United States and for all the
peoples of the world.
The United States, however, has once again
resorted to the logic of brute force; hence its aggression
against Afghanistan. Then came the use of biological
materials in subversive operations, whose source,
according to American authorities, is most likely to be
found in the United States. All this was accompanied
by Western media campaigns intended to kindle
feelings of rancour, hatred and chauvinism and to stoke
the fires of war and aggression in the world. This
confirms that the present world order is extremely
fragile and that the fires of any conflagration anywhere
could spread to the whole world. Indeed, wide as it is,
the world could be set on fire by a spark coming from
the West. The world needs to save itself from falling
into an abyss, to which it is being pushed by policies
that have their roots in hubris, arrogance, injustice and
20

aggression. The world needs justice based on fairness;
it should not use force on the basis of power and
advantage. Perceiving the dangers to which the world
is being exposed, our leader President Saddam Hussein
of the Republic of Iraq has called for acting wisely and
reasonably to spare humanity the scourges of
vengeance, war, rancour and hatred. On 29 October
2001, he launched an initiative calling for the world to
cooperate, on the basis of a global agreement, to rid
itself of the burden and dangers of weapons of mass
destruction, beginning with the huge arsenal of such
weapons stockpiled primarily in the United States and
secondarily in the Zionist entity. In his initiative,
President Saddam Hussein emphasized that,
“When the United States begins to divest itself of
its weapons of mass destruction with the rest of
the world following suit, the United States will
find its way to the paths of wisdom. The world
will treat it with respect and love after sensing the
respect and love coming from it. The world,
including the United States, will then have peace,
rather than stand at the brink of the abyss.”
From this rostrum we call for reason, wisdom and
the rule of law to prevail over impetuosity, recklessness
and the law of brute force. We stress the importance of
proceeding with a comprehensive objective effort to rid
the world of all weapons of mass destruction and to set
up a just and equitable international order in which all
can enjoy peace, security and prosperity. It is now clear
that the current discriminatory theories of non-
proliferation and the mindset of drawing a distinction
between safe and unsafe possession of weapons of
mass destruction will not lead to a lessening of the
dangers to the world, but instead to the exact opposite.
Iraq has suffered and continues to suffer
aggression and terrorism. Its leaders, officials and
nationals have been subjected to numerous terrorist
attempts on their lives. Its towns and villages have
been the targets of many acts of terrorism at the hands
of terrorist infiltrators coming from across the border,
who are sponsored, trained, financed and armed within
the framework of State terrorism.
The Iraqi nuclear reactor devoted to peaceful
purposes was the target of a terrorist attack by
warplanes of the Zionist entity in 1981. Iraq’s towns
and villages and economic, scientific and cultural
facilities were also systematically targeted and
destroyed in the course of the aggression launched by
the United States and the United Kingdom and their
allies in 1991 and in the five large-scale attacks that
followed in 1993, 1996, 1998 and 2001. Furthermore,
for 11 years now Iraq has suffered comprehensive
sanctions that have deprived its people and that have so
far claimed the lives of 1.6 million civilians, the
majority of whom are children and the elderly. Both the
aggression and the comprehensive sanctions constitute
systematic State terrorism directed against an entire
people.
The daily aggression launched by aircraft of the
United States and the United Kingdom against Iraqi
towns and villages within the so-called no-fly zones
imposed by these two States on the basis of a unilateral
and illegal decision taken in flagrant violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and international law is
also State terrorism. We must also mention the
explosions carried out in certain Iraqi border areas by
elements of mercenary infiltrators, who are financed,
armed and harboured by certain States, including the
United States, which openly spends tens of millions of
dollars on mercenary bands for the purpose of carrying
out terrorist operations in Iraq under the so-called Iraq
Liberation Act. The term “terrorism” also applies to the
use by the United States and the United Kingdom of
more than 300 tons of depleted uranium ammunition
against the people of Iraq in 1991. Through the ensuing
toxic radiological effects, this has led to an increase in
the number of embryonic deformities, a tenfold
increase in cancer cases and pollution of the
environment of the region for many generations to
come.
All these and other acts that violate the principles
of international law are acts of terrorism. In the face of
these acts of terrorism and aggression, Iraq has made
many sacrifices in defence of its sovereignty,
independence, dignity and national choices. The brave
people of Iraq are more determined today than at any
time in the past. They take pride in and cherish their
national leadership, holding fast to their sovereignty,
dignity and national and regional interests, defending
their independence and political choices and defying
all the evil intentions that stand behind the aggression
and acts of terrorism directed against them.
The fact that Iraq is a victim of international
terrorism has made it one of the first countries to call
for combating terrorism. Iraqi national legislation
provides for harsher punishment for terrorist acts. Iraq
has signed and ratified most international conventions
21

in force against terrorism. Iraq believes that, in order to
confront international terrorism, including State
terrorism, it is necessary to initiate, under the umbrella
of the United Nations, an international effort to reach
agreement on a definition of terrorism and on ways to
combat it, in accordance with international law and the
Charter of the United Nations.
Iraq is prepared to participate actively in such an
international effort to combat terrorism in all its forms,
whether perpetrated by individuals, groups or States.
Here, it is necessary to emphasize the natural,
inalienable right of all peoples to defend their
sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, as
well as to struggle against all forms of terrorism,
including foreign occupation, colonialist control and
aggression in all its military and economic forms,
intervention in the internal affairs of States and the
instigation and financing of ethnic and religious
conflicts among peoples of the world. All these rights
are embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and
international law.
In discussing the question of reforming the
current unsound state of international relations, we
must point out the need to reform international
mechanisms, foremost among which is the Security
Council, to which the Member States of the United
Nations have entrusted the primary responsibility of
maintaining international peace and security.
The practices of the Security Council, especially
in the last 11 years, have made it clear that the Council
is no longer true to its role as specified by the Charter;
that it has become a tool for implementing the policies
of one single State; and that it now stands as a glaring
model practitioner of double standards. Suffice it to
cite, as just one example among many, the fact that the
comprehensive sanctions imposed by the Council on
Iraq constitute a flagrant violation of the Charter and
the mandate of the Council. This was admitted by the
United Nations itself, as stated in the report entitled
“The right to food”, submitted under cover of the
Secretary-General’s note of 23 July 2001, in which the
Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on the right to food said:
“There can be little doubt that subjecting the Iraqi
people to a harsh economic embargo since 1991
has placed the United Nations in a clear violation
of the obligation to respect the right to food of
people in Iraq.” (A/56/210, para. 56)
Likewise, the expert of the Subcommission on the
Promotion and Protection of Human Rights had this to
say on the subject in a report dated 21 June 2000:
“The sanctions regime against Iraq is
unequivocally illegal under existing international
humanitarian law and human rights law. Some
would go as far as making a charge of genocide.”
(E/CN.4/Sub.2/2000/33, para. 71)
We therefore call for a comprehensive reform of
the Security Council that would lead to the expansion
of its membership and to the reform of its methods of
work, with specific reference to its decision-making
process, so as to ensure full respect by the Council for
the purposes and principles of the Charter and the
principle of democracy in international relations.
It has also become necessary to establish a
mechanism for judicial review that would rule on the
legality and constitutionality of Security Council
resolutions in order to ensure that they are consistent
with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations and with international law. We believe
that Member States should be able to resort to the
International Court of Justice to appeal resolutions of
the Security Council which these States consider as
involving infringement on the principles of the Charter
and international law.
Thus we will be able to remedy this flagrant
deviation from all democratic, judicial and legal norms
and principles in the work and mandate of the Security
Council.
Pending the completion of the process of
reforming the Security Council and of ensuring that it
plays its role in conformity with the Charter, States
Members of the United Nations should reconsider their
authorization to the Council to act on their behalf in the
maintenance of international peace and security, since
the Council has abused that authorization. There is no
more obvious case in this regard than that of the
comprehensive sanctions imposed on Iraq. No just-
thinking State can afford to remain a spectator when it
sees the authorization it granted to the Security Council
being used to annihilate the people of Iraq.
It is the legal and moral obligation of all States
that respect international law and the Charter of the
United Nations to declare that they are not parties to
this crime and that they did not authorize the Security
Council to kill the children of Iraq in their name. The
22

comprehensive sanctions imposed on Iraq have
inflicted enormous damage on the interests of a
considerable number of the countries of the world, and
these countries are called upon to put a stop to these
illegal acts and to restore their trade relations with Iraq,
in implementation of Article 50 of the Charter.
The organized terrorism to which the people of
Palestine are being subjected by the Zionist entity, the
founder and primary source of terrorism, can be seen in
the bombing of towns, villages, camps and Islamic and
Christian houses of worship, as well as in political
assassinations, imposition of collective punishments,
occupation of Muslim holy sites, use of depleted
uranium ammunitions and poison gases, bulldozing of
farms and confiscation of lands.
This organized terrorism calls for a reaction on
the part of the international community that is
commensurate with the gravity of these genocidal
practices against a whole people. Similarly, the
systematic destruction to which the Afghan people are
being subjected at the hands of the American military
machine is an illegal unilateral use of force and should
come to an end. I should like to refer here to the
Secretary-General’s 1999 annual report on the work of
the Organization, in which he stated that
“enforcement actions without Security Council
authorization threaten the very core of the
international security system founded on the
Charter of the United Nations” (A/54/1, para. 66).
We demand an end to this interference in the
internal affairs of Afghanistan. The Afghan people
should be able to make their own political choices, in
conformity with their national interests and without
any external interference, under whatever pretext.
The United Nations was founded for the purpose
of achieving security, peace and stability, so that social
and economic progress for all peoples might be
promoted by a number of means, including avoidance
of wars and conflicts. But today two thirds of the
population of the world suffer from underdevelopment
and live in misery, while the few live in prosperity.
What is required is to reactivate the role of the United
Nations in the search for a balanced international
economic policy that will lead to greater equality
among peoples and States, lessen the intensity of
political conflicts and feelings of frustration, engage all
as partners in building the world economy, promote
human rights and fundamental freedoms, and bring
about a better life for peoples.
Efforts to reform the international political
environment will not meet with success if they are not
accompanied by efforts to reform the economic
environment with a view to extending prosperity to all
humankind. We must remember that the vast resources
with which God Almighty has favoured our planet
Earth are sufficient to enable us to achieve prosperity,
security and stability for all. What we need is the
conviction that all human beings are equal in terms of
their worth, and we must work hard to avert, and put an
end to, all policies and actions that violate this truth
and cause upheavals in international relations.



"
56,2001,SAU,"In the name of Allah, most compassionate, most merciful.
Blessing and peace be upon the most noble of prophets.

Mr. President:
It gives me great pleasure to extend to you and to your friendly country, the Republic of Korea, our sincere congratulations on your election as President of this General Assembly, expressing full confidence that you will steer the business of this important session competently and effectively.


I would also like to express our gratitude to the President of the previous session of the General Assembly, Mr. Harri Holkeri, who managed its business with wisdom and expertise, in a way that deserves our thanks and appreciation.
It is also my pleasure on this occasion to greet His Excellency the Secretary-General and extend my thanks and appreciation for his continued efforts to establish peace and security in the world, maintain the role of the Organization and raise its efficiency in order to restore credibility and effectiveness.
Mr. President:
The international community is still going through the aftermath of the horrendous disaster that befell the United States of America on September 11, resulting in huge material losses and the death of thousands of innocent victims:  tremendous damage that cannot yet be reckoned or determined, such was the gravity of the catastrophe, its depth and repercussions.
An earnest global direction has emerged, to stand resolutely and firmly against whoever is proved to be responsible for or connected with this heinous criminal act; and to attempt every way and means conducive to the eradication of the phenomenon of international terrorism that has lately been spreading and from which various nations and countries have suffered irrespective of their affiliation or ethnicity.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was one of the first states to express its absolute condemnation and strong denunciation of what happened in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. Without hesitation it has contributed to any effort or alliance aimed at the eradication of this perilous scourge that threatens us all. This stance of the Kingdom is in harmony with its constant and continuing policies against terrorism and its perpetrators. The Kingdom itself has suffered from terrorism, and has taken numerous administrative, legal and security measures to combat it and eliminate it; to curb terrorist actions and practices, or at least to minimize the possibilities of their occurrence.
Mr. President:
Our meeting during this session, convened just two months after the New York disaster, and a few miles from ground zero, must take us from the phase of shock and sorrow at what happened to the phase of earnest action and the adoption of practical and effective means for combating terrorism: to sever its roots and causes. It is therefore most fitting to take up the spirit expressed by His Excellency President George W. Bush in his address to this distinguished forum a few days ago, in which he stressed that the time is ripe to move together seriously and purposefully in confronting this joint enemy, and not be satisfied merely with denunciation, repudiation, and the expression of sorrow.
On our part, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, even prior to the September incident, had in fact taken a series of measures and regulations that prove our seriousness in anti-terrorism endeavors. For example, my country enacted a series of laws and regulations related to combating terrorism and inflicting harsh punishment on its perpetrators. It has adopted financial and banking measures that restrict the potential for extremist groups to benefit from means of financial support to facilitate implementation of their plans.
At the regional level the Kingdom was one of the first signatories to the Arab Convention for Combating Terrorism issued in 1998 by the League of Arab States, as well as the Convention on Combating Terrorism of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. At the international level, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has acceded to numerous UN agreements concerning terrorism. It is on the point of joining two agreements: the International Convention on Terrorist Bombings, and the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism.
Mr. President:
There is a fact that should not be overlooked concerning the growing global concern on the issue of terrorism, in the context of crystallizing policies and adopting international agreements designed to combat it. The mere enactment of laws and regulations to combat terrorism, while essential, is not enough by itself to prevent incidents of terrorist action.
Eradication of terrorism requires all of us to move towards eliminating the infrastructure that is relied on by terrorist groups scattered all over the world, the infrastructure that is providing them the means of support and publicity. In this context we should remember that certain countries grant privileges and immunities to those who resort to them under cover of 'political opposition', with the result that they are able to avail themselves of freedom of movement in any country that hosts them, exploiting its laws and spreading their propaganda, making contacts and sending hate messages, attempting to influence public opinion and instigate the performance of violent and terrorist activities within that country. If we are serious in fighting terrorism, we must close this door in the face of anyone who wishes to exploit a country to achieve an end that may seem legitimate for some but in reality is a path leading to violence and terrorism that has no relation to a just cause.
The other issue that we should understand and pay attention to, particularly in light of the feelings generated by the events in New York and Washington, is the necessity to be aware that if the process of combating terrorism takes the form of accusing particular nationalities or religious groups, and is motivated by prejudice and bias, from an angle of generalization devoid of rationale or firm evidence, then this haste in accusation and spreading unfounded allegations such as linking terrorism and terrorists to Islam, will benefit only those who aim at propagating the idea of a clash of civilizations, which we believe is the basic objective of those who committed the events of September. Following such confrontational trends will result only in contributing to the achievement of the aims of the terrorists themselves.
We look forward to the United Nations, as the body that represents all of us without exception, to make the international endeavors against terrorism sincere global efforts devoid of discrimination and bias, and for the service of all members of the international community, protecting them from the evil of terrorism, including official terrorism that is supported by states.
Within the framework of its endeavors to combat terrorism, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has supported all efforts that stem from our international Organization, whether acceding to international agreements as mentioned earlier, or through endorsing the relevant resolutions on this topic, including Security Council Resolutions 1368 and 1373 (2001).
My country supports the call for convening an international conference on terrorism to be held under the auspices of the United Nations, with one of its prime functions that of putting a specific definition to terrorism:  distinguishing terrorism as a serious phenomenon threatening the security and stability of the international community, from the right of nations to struggle and resist occupation in accordance with the provisions of international law and the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr. President:
Combating terrorism requires from all of us diligent action in order to solve unresolved issues that inflame hatred, inculcate bitterness, implant mistrust and deepen the feelings of oppression and lack of justice. When we state this matter our intention is not to link terrorism to any other issue, because we recognize very well that combating terrorism is an issue that requires our concerted effort irrespective of any other consideration. What we should pay attention to and take into consideration, however, is the necessity for not availing any opportunity to the terrorists to sneak in and exploit unresolved issues in justifying their terrorist activities, thereby linking their practices to such issues.
It is our duty in this case to undo any such linkage, in a positive manner that will deprive the terrorists of any justification on which to base the implementation of their plans. From this perspective, we call for acceleration of finding a just solution to the Palestinian issue, one that is not looked at as a response to the terrorists' pressures but to a pressure from our side to deprive the terrorists from exploiting the continuation of this issue that is suspended without resolution.
This is exactly what makes us look with full appreciation to what has been stated in the address of the President of the United States of America before the General Assembly where he indicated - in the context of his reference to this issue - that violence in Palestine is the responsibility of all parties and not one particular party, and that it is the right of both Israel and Palestine to live jointly as independent states. The peace process should not be derailed by sporadic incidents of violence. The optimal way to stop violence is in getting the peace process to its desired target through reviving it and integrating it according to its principles and grounds, based on the resolutions of international legitimacy particularly Resolutions 242 and 338 and the principle of land for peace.
Mr. President:
The war going on in Afghanistan represents one of the ramifications of the situation that the Afghan problem has reached, and that has led to an environment in which international terrorism found fertile ground in which to implement its plans and objectives.  With all our understanding of the motivation of the international coalition in launching its military campaign against the hideout of terrorism in Afghanistan, what we fear is that this campaign will be constrained by its military framework and the consequences of exposing Afghan civilians to greater suffering and displacement without achieving any acceptable objectives or outcome, and possibly exposing the future of Afghanistan to more trouble, division, and instability.
Therefore, the Kingdom has done its best to avert Afghanistan from such a painful destiny, while contributing to the direction of the international coalition towards the path that is in harmony with the spirit of the Security Council resolutions relevant to the Afghan issue. As such, we have submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations a perspective that embodies a number of ideas designed to safeguard the autonomy of Afghanistan and place it on the road leading to stability and development; and that on the other hand, will help eradicate terrorists and those collaborating with them by providing them with protection and a safe haven in Afghan territory.
Military action alone cannot, in our opinion, lead to achieving the desired objective in Afghanistan, and therefore it is imperative to depend on a political perspective that assists in achieving the targets of the coalition on the one hand, and on the other, safeguards Afghanistan's stable political future.
Mr. President:
Today the international community is most in need of joint endeavor and cooperation in order to devise solutions on which agreement comes as a result of our collective thought and the outcome of our joint action on the basis of justice and equality. It is imperative to strive to reach agreement on the parameters of international existence based on respect for human values, traditions and principles, to realize peace, stability and development, as well as to encourage the setting up of creative dialogue and positive interaction among global cultures in order to realize understanding and enhance international cooperation with the aim of achieving peace, security, stability and welfare for all nations and peoples.
May God's peace and blessings be upon you."
56,2001,BRA,"﻿I greet you,
Mr. President, and pay tribute to the Republic of Korea,
which offers the world an example of dedication to the
cause of peace and development.
I reaffirm my admiration for Secretary-General
Kofi Annan, who, together with the United Nations,
was rightfully honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize.
More than ever, we need his clear vision and courage
in seeking to build a peaceful and democratic
international order that is based on solidarity. Only
fanatics fail to acknowledge the great mission
undertaken by the United Nations and by Kofi Annan.
In a tradition that extends back to the beginnings
of this Organization, the month of September in New
York is dedicated to a celebration of dialogue: the
opening of the general debate of this General
Assembly. It was not so this year. In New York as well
as in Washington, the month of September was marked
by the very denial of this dialogue and understanding
between peoples: the senseless violence resulting from
an odious and treacherous attack against the United
States of America and against all peace- and freedom-
loving peoples.
It was an infamous act of aggression against a
city that, perhaps more than any other, is a symbol of
cosmopolitanism; a city that has welcomed immigrants
from all parts, such as the Dutch Jews of Portuguese
ancestry who, in the seventeenth century, left Brazil for
what was then New Amsterdam.
New York has grown, prospered and reached
maturity guided by pluralistic values. It became great,
and was admired, not only because of its Jewish and
Anglo-Saxon heritage, but also because of its Arab,
Latin, African, Caribbean and Asian presence. The
attacks of 11 September 2001 were an act of aggression
against all of those traditions — an act of aggression
against humanity.
As the first head of State to speak in the general
debate at this session of the General Assembly, I wish
to be very clear. As I had occasion to say on the very
morning of those horrendous attacks, and as I have said
during my conversations with President George W.
Bush, Brazil extends its full solidarity and support to
the people of the United States in its response to
terrorism.
To our understanding, the American hemisphere
as a whole was attacked. That is why we suggested
convening the consultative organ of the Inter-American
Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance. Terrorism negates all
that the United Nations stands for. It destroys the very
principles of civilized behaviour. It fosters fear, and
threatens the security and peace of all countries.
The victims of any act of terrorism will not be
forgotten; nor will the perpetrators of such acts go
unpunished, whether they are individuals, groups or the
States that give them support. The march of folly will
be vigorously resisted by the solid alliance of all free
peoples.
The Charter of the United Nations acknowledges
the right of Member States to act in self-defence. That
is not in doubt. But let us keep in mind that the struggle
against terrorism cannot rely exclusively on the
5

effectiveness of self-defence measures or on the use of
military force by individual countries.
In 1945, the United Nations committed itself to
the task of laying the foundations for peace and the
protection of future generations against the scourge of
war. War always takes a heavy human toll — a cost in
lives cut short and lives overtaken by fear and flight.
That underscores the responsibility of terrorists for
what is happening today. Brazil hopes that,
notwithstanding these circumstances, humanitarian
assistance efforts in Afghanistan will not be frustrated.
Furthermore, we will, to the best of our abilities,
welcome refugees wishing to settle in our country.
Certain things may be obvious, but they warrant
repeating. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said, the
struggle against terrorism is not, and must never
become, a clash between civilizations, much less
between religions. Not one of the civilizations that
have enriched and humanized our planet has not
known, within its own historical experience, episodes
of violence and terror.
Around the world, problems related to crime,
drug abuse, drug-trafficking and money-laundering are
evils related to terrorism that must be eradicated. From
this rostrum, I would like to call for a worldwide public
awareness campaign to make drug users in all countries
realize that they are helping — even if inadvertently —
to finance terrorism.
If we are to stem the flow of resources to the
terrorist networks spreading death and destruction, it is
crucial that drug use in our societies be drastically
curtailed. Furthermore, we must not allow differences
in national tax regimes in various countries to be used
as an instrument to foster capital flight, to the
detriment of economic development, or to help finance
organized crime, including terrorist actions. If the
existence of tax havens is inseparable from these
problems, then tax havens should not exist. We must
put an end to such safe harbours for corruption and
terror, with regard to which some Governments have,
to date, been complacent.
It is only natural that, since 11 September, issues
of international security should have been given high
priority. Yet terrorism must not be allowed to stifle the
debate on cooperation and other issues of global
interest. The road to the future requires the forces of
globalization to be harnessed in the pursuit of lasting
peace — a peace sustained not by fear, but rather by
the willing acceptance by all countries of a just
international order.
On this theme, I have sought to mobilize
numerous world leaders. Brazil wishes to do its part to
ensure that the world does not squander the
opportunities that are contained in the present crisis.
Let us focus on our fundamental imperative of
promoting development. The process of globalization
is tainted by an undeniable sense of unease. I am not
referring to the ideological disquiet of those who
oppose globalization on principle or who reject the
very notion of universal values which inspire freedom
and the respect for human rights. Rather, I have in
mind the fact that globalization has not lived up to its
promises. There is a governance deficit in the
international sphere, and it results from a democratic
deficit. Globalization will be sustainable only if
enriched by a sense of justice. Our aim should be
“globalization in solidarity”, rather than the
asymmetrical globalization of today.
In the field of trade, it is high time that
multilateral negotiations were translated into greater
access for goods from developing countries to the more
prosperous markets. The ministers meeting in Doha
have a heavy responsibility: to ensure that the new
round of multilateral trade negotiations is a
development round. To this end, it is crucial for
priority to be given to those issues most conducive to
the dismantling of protectionist practices and barriers
in developed countries.
Brazil has taken the lead in negotiations to ensure
greater market access and better humanitarian
conditions in the fight against disease. We will seek to
strike a balance between the requirements of patent
rights and the imperative of providing care to those
most in need. We favour market practices and the
protection of intellectual property, but not at the cost of
human lives. This is a point that must be carefully
defined: life must prevail over material interests.
The Bretton Woods institutions must be revamped
if they are to respond to the challenges of the twenty-
first century. The International Monetary Fund must be
allotted greater resources so as to allow it to function
as a lender of last resort. The World Bank and regional
banks must be given a more active part in fostering
economic growth and development.
The volatility of international capital flows must
be contained and the financial system made more
6

predictable and less crisis-prone, as proposed by the
G-20.
Similarly, although measures such as the Tobin
tax present practical difficulties, it should be possible
to look into better and less compulsory alternatives. I
submit that these issues should be given special
attention at the United Nations International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Monterrey.
We must also envisage practical forms of
cooperation to alleviate the tragedy of AIDS, above all
in Africa. How long will the world remain indifferent
to the plight of those who might yet be saved from
disease, deprivation and exclusion?
The twentieth century came to an end amid a
growing sense of global citizenship and universally
shared values. Brazil is determined to forge ahead in
this direction.
The International Criminal Court will be a
historic victory for the cause of human rights. The
protection of the environment and sustainable
development are equally pressing challenges of our
time. The process of climate change has been
scientifically ascertained as a fact, but it is not
unstoppable. What the future holds depends on what
we do today, in particular as concerns the Kyoto
Protocol.
(spoke in English)
I have just been informed of the successful
outcome of the Marrakesh meeting. Brazil warmly
welcomes this development, which is a fundamental
step towards controlling, and eventually reversing, the
warming of the atmosphere. I will submit to the
Congress a proposal for the prompt ratification of the
Kyoto Protocol.
(spoke in Portuguese)
Recent events in this city and elsewhere have
clearly demonstrated the grave threat posed by
weapons of mass destruction. No matter the nature of
the menace — be it bacteriological, such as anthrax;
chemical; or nuclear — there is no alternative to
disarmament and non-proliferation.
It is an ethical imperative that science and
technology must not be turned into a weapon in the
hands of the irresponsible. This requires the active and
legitimate involvement of the United Nations in the
control, destruction and eradication of these arsenals.
Just as it supported the creation of the State of
Israel, Brazil today calls for concrete measures towards
the setting up of a Palestinian state that is democratic,
united and economically viable.
The right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination and respect for the existence of Israel as
a sovereign, free and secure State are essential if the
Middle East is to rebuild its future in peace.
This is a moral debt owed by the United Nations.
It is a task that must not be postponed.
It is equally urgent that a lasting solution be
found to the conflict in Angola, which deserves the
opportunity to get back on the road to development.
This is the same future that Brazil wishes for East
Timor, which we hope will soon take its rightful place
in the Assembly as a sovereign state.
A strong and flexible United Nations is required
if the world is to respond to increasingly complex
problems. The United Nations will only be
strengthened if the General Assembly becomes more
active and more respected, and if the Security Council
becomes more representative. Its composition should
no longer be a reflection of arrangements among the
victors of a conflict that took place over 50 years ago,
and for whose triumph Brazilian soldiers gave their
blood in the glorious campaigns in Italy.
Brazil joins those who appeal for more
democracy in international relations in calling for the
enlargement of the Security Council. Common sense
requires the inclusion, in the category of permanent
members, of those developing countries with the
necessary credentials to exercise the responsibilities
that today’s world imposes upon them.
By the same token, Brazil believes that an
enlargement of the G-7/G-8 is called for in view of the
transformations the world is presently undergoing. It is
no longer admissible to restrict to such a limited group
of countries the discussion of issues pertaining to
globalization and its inevitable impact on the political
and economic life of emerging countries.
An international order that is more just and based
on solidarity will come about only through a concerted
effort on the part of the community of nations. This is
7

too precious a goal to be left to the vagaries of market
forces or to the whims of power politics.
We do not aspire to a world government, but we
cannot sidestep the obligation to ensure that
international relations are not left rudderless, but
reflect the legitimate aspirations of the majority. The
nefarious shadow of terrorism points to what can be
expected if we do not enhance mutual understanding
among peoples.
This Organization was created under the sign of
dialogue — a dialogue among sovereign States that are
free nations, whose peoples actively participate in
national decision-making.
With their help, we can ensure that the twenty-
first century will not be a time of fear, but rather of the
flourishing of a freer humanity, at peace with itself, and
rationally oriented towards the building of an
international order that is acceptable to all peoples and
that provides a guiding framework for States at the
global level.
This is the challenge of the twenty-first century.
Let us face it inspired by the grand vision of the
founding fathers of this Organization, who dreamed of
a pluralistic world, founded on peace, solidarity,
tolerance and reason, which is the ultimate source of
the rule of law.

"
56,2001,FIN,"﻿The terrorist attacks of
11 September are going to thoroughly change the
world, but we do not yet know how. The aftermath of
these events has shown that there are more issues that
unite us than issues that separate us. We also know that
preventing terrorism and other global threats requires
the broadest possible cooperation. The United Nations
is the main forum for such cooperation. This was
demonstrated immediately after the attacks, when both
the General Assembly and the Security Council
promptly condemned the terrorist attacks as threats to
international peace and security and expressed their
readiness to combat all forms of terrorism. Now it is
extremely urgent to finalize the negotiations on a
comprehensive convention on the suppression of
international terrorism. I appeal to everyone to quickly
agree on the outstanding draft in question.
These attacks have also profoundly affected our
sense of security, both as Member States and as
individuals. Fear and insecurity were globalized
overnight. But democratic societies cannot be
destroyed by such acts. When faced with threats our
common values and democracy will only get stronger.
Finland condemns terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations, and whoever its victims may be. There
is no justification for it.
I extend, on behalf of the Government of Finland,
our condolences to the families of the victims, to the
citizens of New York and to all Americans, including
President Bush. We have expressed our solidarity with
the United States, as we would have done with any
other country affected by such attacks.
The rapidly changing world and the new threats
require changed thinking in the international
organizations. We must respond quickly and efficiently
to the challenges of the real world. We cannot bury
ourselves in old rhetoric and positions when people
outside require concrete action and help. International
cooperation, after all, benefits all States, big and small.
23

I hope that the unique coalition and cooperation against
terrorism will be reflected on other issues of common
concern to us.
The statement in the Millennium Declaration that
the United Nations is
“the indispensable common house of the entire
human family, through which we will seek to
realize our universal aspirations for peace,
cooperation and development” (resolution 55/2,
para. 32)
is now truer than ever. The fight against terrorism and
the Afghan situation are at the top of the United
Nations agenda, but there are other issues and
processes that require true cooperation in order to be
successful. In this context, I would like to underline the
establishment of the International Criminal Court and
the world conferences on sustainable development,
financing for development and children.
One of our common responsibilities is the
maintenance of international peace and security. This is
one of the issues that unites us and is in everybody’s
interest. The United Nations is the only international
organization with global competence in the area of
security policies. Ongoing crises are, however, so
complex that they require united efforts and combined
resources. This is particularly true of the Middle East,
where a return to the peace process is an urgent
necessity. To this end, we will have to pressure both
parties, as well as those who can influence them.
The complexity of international crises has
required a close and comprehensive look by the United
Nations at how to improve its performance in peace
operations. The whole continuum that reaches from
conflict prevention, through crisis management to post-
conflict peace-building, with a strong emphasis on
preventive action in every phase, requires a fresh
approach, as proposed in the report of the Brahimi
Panel and in the comprehensive review of the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations. Finland
supports the full implementation of such an approach.
The report of the Secretary-General on the
prevention of armed conflicts and its recommendations
are important contributions to the core activities of the
United Nations. The Secretary-General’s call,
reiterated by the Security Council, on the development
of a comprehensive conflict-prevention strategy is
timely and warranted. By the adoption of the
Programme for the Prevention of Violent Conflicts, the
European Union has underlined its political
commitment to pursue conflict prevention as one of the
main objectives in its external relations. This is also a
good example of mutually supportive actions by the
United Nations and the European Union. This is again
an issue that requires a holistic view and a system-wide
approach.
Finland supports increased focus on the part of
the United Nations on crisis prevention and the root
causes of conflicts. Promotion of democracy, human
rights, the rule of law, increased equality and social
development, as well as the prevention of
environmental threats and the eradication of poverty,
discrimination, racism and impunity, all point in the
same direction.
The complexity of current crises — be they in
Afghanistan, the Middle East, the Balkans or Africa —
and the limited resources available have made different
organizations seek cooperation and complementarity in
their actions. Chapter VIII of the United Nations
Charter puts strong emphasis on regional arrangements
aimed at dealing with issues relating to international
peace and security. The Security Council should utilize
such regional arrangements for enforcement action.
The European Union is in the process of
developing its own crisis-management capability, in
terms of both civilian and military capacities. In this
work, Finland, just like the entire European Union, is
committed to contributing to international peace and
security, in accordance with the principles of the
United Nations Charter.
The European Union has adopted conclusions on
its cooperation in conflict prevention and crisis
management with the United Nations. Areas and
modalities for such cooperation have been identified in
close cooperation with the United Nations. It will
progress as the European Common Security and
Defence Policy develops its focus on substantive issues
and concrete needs in a pragmatic manner. This
cooperation focuses on conflict prevention, civilian and
military aspects of crisis management and on regional
crises like the ones in the western Balkans, the Middle
East and Africa.
There will be a wider and more concrete scope
for cooperation within two years when the European
Union achieves its military capability. At present, it is
difficult to say what kind of operations the European
24

Union could or would execute and when it could do so.
In Finland’s case, our law requires that either the
United Nations or the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe mandate such an operation.
In today’s complex crises civilian aspects of crisis
management have and will become all the more
relevant in all organizations. The European Union has
developed its civilian capabilities in four priority areas,
namely civilian police, strengthening the rule of law,
strengthening civilian administration and civil
protection. In these areas, the European Union and the
United Nations, as well as other international
organizations, must also seek synergies and
complementarity.
The Millennium Summit and the Millennium
Declaration are outstanding achievements in the history
of the United Nations. The Declaration manifests a
unique commitment to multilateralism by all the
Member States of the United Nations. It sets an
ambitious agenda and goals for the United Nations for
years to come. However, without effective
implementation it is only a piece of paper. Its
implementation also requires common action and
strengthened commitment to multilateralism. The
Secretary-General’s road map gives us guidance on
how to maintain the millennium momentum and how to
proceed, although the onus is on the Member States.
This year alone the United Nations has organized
five conferences and special sessions and hundreds of
other meetings that are an integral part of the follow-up
and implementation of the Millennium Declaration.
These processes should show the same kind of
commitment as was encountered in the Summit.
Unfortunately, I have to say that none of these recent
conferences and special sessions has come close to
reflecting the commitment that was so noticeable in the
Millennium Summit. We need invigorated common
efforts to genuinely implement the ambitious agenda
adopted only a year ago and to uphold multilateralism.
I hope we can see improvement in this respect in
coming summits and conferences.
The moral and political commitment to the
Declaration should lead to its effective implementation.
The strong support for these common objectives and
our determination to achieve them need much more
action in order to become a reality. Such challenges as
halving, by the year 2015, the proportion of people
living in poverty should not be jeopardized by narrow
national interests.
Globalization and harnessing it to benefit all
humankind remain one of the major challenges to the
international community. A common approach is
needed in this work too. We have to learn how to deal
with the paradox of democracy spreading across the
world, and there is much disillusionment about its
workings. The key to explaining this paradox is
globalization. It poses a demand to develop strong,
new, democratic policies and institutions for
international and global governance. They must be
developed in the United Nations, but also at the
regional level, such as in the European Union.
The Government of Finland recently prepared a
study on Finnish policies on globalization. One of its
main conclusions was that in resolving multinational
crises created by globalization, the role of cooperation
between national Governments will be growing, not
diminishing. The United Nations is the most universal
forum for intergovernmental cooperation. Finland
supports the United Nations as one of the central actors
in harnessing globalization at the universal level.





"
56,2001,LVA,"﻿It is my honour to
address the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.
Since the terrorist attacks of 11 September, the struggle
against terrorism has become a clear priority on the
international agenda. The United Nations is playing a
key role in coordinating joint measures to eliminate
international terrorism. My country reaffirms its
commitment to be vigorous in handling this matter.
We must act on all levels — global, regional and
national — if we are to succeed in combating
terrorism. Today, the need for international cooperation
has assumed new dimensions. To achieve sustainable
results in eliminating terrorism, joint international
action is mandatory.
Latvia strongly welcomes and supports Security
Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001).
Latvia is convinced that full and unconditional
implementation of Council resolution 1373 (2001) is
imperative for success in the suppression of terrorism.
The financing of terrorism has to be prevented and
eliminated. All action or inaction by States or
individuals that allows the practice of terrorism has to
be stopped. Cooperation and information exchange
among States concerning terrorist activities has to be
strengthened. Latvia welcomes the establishment of the
Security Council Committee to monitor the
implementation of resolution 1373 (2001).
Latvia supports efforts undertaken by other
international organizations acting on the regional level.
As an aspiring member of the Euro-Atlantic
community, Latvia plays its part in the common
activities carried out by the European Union and the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In order to
harmonize regional measures to prevent acts of
terrorism, an action plan for Central and Eastern
European countries was adopted at the recent Warsaw
conference on combating terrorism. Another important
European framework for combating terrorism is the
Council of Europe, which has already formulated a
wide range of legal instruments intended to fight
terrorism.
My country fully shares the position of the
European Union that we must redouble our efforts to
fight international terrorism. That includes both our
commitment as members of the international
community and the “homework” we have to do as
individual States.
A high-level task force has been established in
Latvia to coordinate national efforts against terrorism,
including implementation of Security Council
resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001). Latvia has
initiated the national legislative process of ratifying the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
2

Financing of Terrorism, and it is foreseen that we will
sign the Convention by the end of this year.
The Latvian Government has approved an action
plan for combating terrorism. This is a set of measures
aimed at strengthening my country’s ability to prevent
its territory, banking system and other assets from
being used by terrorists. There should be no place
where terrorists can hide from justice. Latvia has
already formulated legislation in the area of preventing
money laundering. Banks and other operators are
obliged to report on suspicious transfers. The
Government has submitted to the parliament a package
of further amendments to the banking law and the law
on the prevention of the laundering of proceeds derived
from criminal activity.
As it defends the world from terrorism, the
international community has to do its utmost to spare
the innocent people of Afghanistan further suffering.
Latvia fully supports the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, and other
parties in their efforts to bring about a fully inclusive
political system in Afghanistan. My country welcomes
Security Council resolution 1378 (2001). The Latvian
Government has also taken the decision to provide
humanitarian aid to the Afghan people through the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees.
We believe that the priorities that existed before
11 September are all the more valid today. A year ago,
heads of State or Government adopted the Millennium
Declaration, which renewed the spirit of the United
Nations and which clearly demonstrated that the world
and its peoples need this Organization. Latvia attaches
great importance to the implementation of the
Millennium Declaration, especially in relation to issues
of human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rights of
the child and conflict prevention. We consider that the
follow-up process to the Millennium Summit should be
an integral part of the work of the United Nations.
International relations in the twenty-first century have
to be based on values and principles set out in the
Declaration.
The fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly
demonstrated that the commitment that was put into the
Millennium Declaration was genuine. The results of the
General Assembly’s special sessions on human
settlements and on HIV/AIDS, the United Nations
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and
Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and the Durban
World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
have set a number of goals at the State, regional and
global levels. The process has started, and Latvia is
actively participating in pursuit of the common goals.
The United Nations is the only global
Organization charged with the fundamental task of
saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war
and with the maintenance of lasting peace and
international security. One of its most important tasks,
therefore, involves peacekeeping operations.
My country has actively participated in United
Nations-mandated peacekeeping operations since 1996.
This year Latvia is continuing to provide support to
stabilize the situation in the Balkans and is
participating, with troops and personnel, in all United
Nations-mandated, NATO-led operations in the
Balkans, as well as in other operations and endeavours
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE).
Latvia, which attaches great importance to
peacekeeping operations, voluntarily increased its
contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping
budget starting in 2001.
The establishment of the International Criminal
Court has been one of the priorities of the United
Nations for a decade. My country signed the Rome
Statute in 1999, and the Government will present to
Parliament the ratification bill of the Statute and drafts
of the necessary amendments to our national legislation
as soon as possible. Latvia also hopes to be among the
first 60 States to ratify the Statute.
This is an important session of the General
Assembly for Latvia and for its people. This year
marks a decade since Latvia joined the United Nations
as a free and independent country. The United Nations
was the first international organization that Latvia
joined, after 50 years of occupation. The United
Nations has a special meaning for Latvia. Latvia’s
joining the United Nations demonstrates the
commitment of my country to rejoin the international
community and to take an active part in international
events and processes.
In these 10 years, Latvia has made great headway
in its development, and this growth encompasses a
variety of realms. Latvia’s foreign policy is rooted in
3

the observance of international law, the development of
human rights and democracy and the protection of
universally accepted human values. The top priorities
of Latvian foreign policy continue to be joining the
European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. These are not goals in themselves, but,
rather, means to ensure sustainable development. Our
foreign policy priorities also include good-neighbourly
relations, bilateral cooperation and active participation
in international organizations.
I have the honour to announce that Latvia is
changing its status from that of aid recipient to that of
donor country, in order to provide its support to others
through both financial assistance and the sharing of
experiences. Latvia has begun to elaborate its concept
of a donor country. We are looking forward to the
implementation of this concept and are assisting those
who are in urgent need of our help.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the
United Nations and its Secretary-General, Kofi Annan,
on having been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in
recognition of the work that has been carried out. I am
convinced that we, as Member States, will continue to
spare no effort in safeguarding the principles and ideals
for which the United Nations stands.



"
56,2001,SMR,"﻿On behalf of the
Government of the Republic of San Marino, I wish to
congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session and to thank his predecessor for his valuable
contribution.
I would also like to congratulate the Secretary-
General, who was recently re-elected for a second
term. Over the past five years, my country has greatly
appreciated his efficiency, charisma and excellent
diplomatic ability.
14

In expressing its most sincere satisfaction, the
Republic of San Marino congratulates the United
Nations and its Secretary-General on having been
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of this
Organization’s ongoing commitment to peace and
irreplaceable role and of its leader’s outstanding
diplomatic skills and dedication, which have always
characterized his fruitful activity.
Quite understandably, these days the General
Assembly is debating and wondering how and why the
world could change in just a few hours and how the
process of civilization of the international community
could be so ferociously attacked. We have gathered in
the most important international forum to define the
role to be played by each country, individually or
multilaterally, and to determine how this daunting and
insidious challenge can be faced by each and everyone
of us. Our discussions should also focus on how to
adjust our national legal systems to better support a
resolute fight against any form of international
terrorism, strengthen our defence systems and promote
a common culture of solidarity and firm condemnation
of any violation of and attack on human rights and civil
co-existence, the respect and safeguard of which are
crucial.
However, at a time of enormous difficulties, when
the wave of hatred and violence seems to be
inexorable, the international community is sending a
strong signal of hope by showing its determination not
to bend to people who, acting underground, try to
spread terror and turmoil by any possible means. Large
and small countries alike have joined forces to combat
terrorism and have expressed their full solidarity with
the United States’ outstanding example of democracy
and liberty. To the United States and the families of the
victims, I wish to express my deepest sympathies and
condolences.
Almost all countries have seen the attack on the
United States as an attack on each of them. That
explains why, in the face of such tragedies, many small
nations, too, such as the Republic I represent today,
cannot remain neutral by simply offering solidarity or
making statements of principles. Each and every one of
us is called upon to offer a determined and timely
contribution, however small, to the fight against
terrorism, which my country has always condemned in
all international forums as the main threat to peace.
In this spirit, San Marino immediately expressed
its willingness to collaborate with the United States of
America and to fully comply with Security Council
resolutions, in particular resolutions 1333 (2000) of 19
December 2000 and 1373 (2001) of 28 September
2001. This decision was motivated not only by the fact
that our Republic has been a Member of this
Organization for almost a decade, but above all by its
inherent vocation to promote peace and respect for
human rights, prompted by the conviction, matured
over 1,700 years of peace and liberty, that any effort in
this direction helps to create and maintain international
co-existence and mutual respect.
The Republic of San Marino will spare no effort
in the global fight against terrorism, as it has already
done to prevent and combat money-laundering. To that
end, it has adopted the necessary legislative
instruments and effective domestic measures and has
actively participated in the action carried out in this
field by major international organizations, such as the
International Monetary Fund, the Council of Europe
and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe.
My country has successfully integrated many
international provisions aimed at countering terrorism
and intends to proceed to the ratification, as soon as
possible, of those instruments that are not yet part of its
legal system. Indeed, San Marino is well aware of the
importance and effectiveness of international law,
which has been expressly designed to promote
cooperation in this field. In this context, the proposal
submitted by India on a comprehensive anti-terrorism
convention should be taken into consideration as, today
more than ever, this is a very topical issue that deserves
our greatest attention.
At the beginning of this new century, mankind
cannot and must not move backwards. That would be
extremely dangerous, as it would challenge the state of
civilization that mankind has worked so strenuously to
achieve. All free spirits must do their utmost to avert
this potential defeat and embark on the path of
solidarity, cooperation and mutual understanding.
I would also like to convey the hope expressed by
the Government of San Marino and major institutional
bodies for intensified activity by the United Nations, in
the conviction that a more active role of the
Organization is needed to face the numerous
international challenges that, aside from today’s
15

exceptional circumstances, are still at the top of the
world political agenda.
On this occasion, I feel duty-bound to
congratulate the Secretary-General and the President of
the General Assembly for having implemented, with
great determination and courage, a major programme
of reforms aimed at strengthening the United Nations,
well aware of the fact that only a continuous
modernization process will enable the Organization to
work effectively and to keep abreast of future
developments.
In this regard, San Marino has repeatedly stressed
the need for a reformed Security Council that, in better
reflecting the new world order, would guarantee a
higher degree of representativeness, democracy and
transparency. We believe that such prerogatives can be
ensured by simply increasing the number of non-
permanent members. Moreover, San Marino hopes that
the right of veto may be gradually restricted with a
view to its eventual elimination. Indeed, my country is
convinced that the exercise of that right, or the mere
threat of its exercise, still represents a major obstacle
to the proper functioning of the Organization.
Equally important is the ongoing revitalization
process of the General Assembly. The progress that has
been achieved in terms of greater efficiency makes us
believe that the General Assembly will regain its status
as the major decision-making and representative body
of the United Nations. My country hopes that the Ad
Hoc Working Group, open to all Member States, will
carry on this revitalization process.
In consideration of the pivotal role of the United
Nations in fostering international peace and security,
the Republic of San Marino is of the opinion that this
Organization is the most appropriate negotiating forum
at the disposal of the community of nations. Besides
carefully following the Security Council’s efforts to
address the latest events, my country has paid great
attention to the Council’s ongoing commitment to
settling the conflicts afflicting Africa. Today more than
ever, we believe that the immediate implementation of
that body’s decisions is crucial to restoring peace in a
geographical area already stricken by poverty,
epidemics and underdevelopment.
San Marino is also seriously concerned about the
escalation of violence and the increased hostilities in
the Middle East and hopes that, in that tormented and
contested land, dialogue and negotiations can be
resumed as the sine qua non of a longed-for world
reconciliation.
Against today’s international backdrop, the
phenomenon of globalization also deserves careful
consideration. I am not referring exclusively to its
economic and commercial implications, though these
are its most tangible components.
Market expansion and the progressive abolition
of customs barriers have unquestionably contributed to
exporting job opportunities and, eventually, to
economic well-being. On the other hand, however, the
gap between the living conditions and standards of the
North and the South, of the industrialized countries vis-
à-vis the developing and least developed ones, which
are also burdened by huge foreign debt, has widened
dramatically. That gap must be immediately bridged in
order to guarantee the globalization of opportunities
along with the globalization of markets.
We have all witnessed the anti-globalization
demonstrations in Seattle, Prague and, more recently,
Genoa. Paradoxically, both the participants in the
summits and the demonstrators were striving for the
same objectives: poverty eradication, foreign debt
relief for developing countries and greater
environmental protection. I believe that the existence
of common objectives is a first step in the direction of
an open and constructive exchange of views.
The Republic of San Marino also maintains that
poverty alleviation is one of the major challenges
facing the international community for the immediate
future. Future projects should address not only the lack
of access to consumer goods, but also the lack of
education, liberty and participation in decision-making.
In this broader context, poverty is an insurmountable
obstacle to the full enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms.
Recently published data dramatically show that
more than 1.5 billion people live on less than $2 per
day, and at least two thirds are illiterate; 830 million
people suffer from severe malnutrition, and 750 million
are homeless, without access to health care. Moreover,
how can we ignore the fact that hundreds of millions of
children are suffering from malnutrition, that 30,000
children under five years of age are dying every day
and that more than 500 million of them live on less
than $1 per day?
16

Well aware of the dramatic situation of many
developing countries, the Republic of San Marino has
fully supported the initiatives sponsored by creditor
countries and international financial institutions to
reduce or cancel foreign debts of highly indebted
nations. Though not sufficient to mitigate the problem
of poverty or to stop the vicious cycle of misery, these
initiatives reflect the will of both creditor and debtor
countries to find jointly a solution for the scourge of
poverty and to share responsibilities.
It is not utopian to think that, by addressing and
solving the problems of hunger, poverty and the
disproportionate social, economic and cultural gaps
between a minority living in the North and an
overwhelming, poor and despairing majority living in
the South, terrorism will also be wiped out in the near
future. Indeed, poverty and ideological extremism
serve as fertile soil for terrorism, with its destructive
potential and toll in human lives.
Once again, the Holy Father has rightly called on
all States and peoples to struggle for justice, since this
is the only way to affirm the pre-eminence of law for
the international community. Throughout its long and
glorious history of freedom, San Marino has always
fully shared this ideal.
Prompted by these sentiments and determined to
further support progressive international détente, for
the benefit of both nations and individuals, I reiterate
the hope of the Republic of San Marino that the
international community, through the recognized
ability of the United Nations system, will be able to
give new impetus to the principles of dialogue and
cooperation upon which it is based.
"
56,2001,DZA,"﻿This
session is taking place at a time when there is a new
international awareness of the global nature of
problems of peace, security and development. The
barbaric terrorist attacks against the United States on
11 September, and their alarming consequences, made
it clear that terrorism is now a factor for worldwide
political and economic destabilization.
Algeria has conveyed its deepest sympathy to the
families of the victims of those horrible acts. It did so
with all the more sincerity and feeling because for
more than a decade Algeria itself has been enduring the
horrors of terrorism. The international reaction to this
devastating scourge has been a heartening collective
wake-up call. Mobilization and multifaceted action to
combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is
now worldwide. In that regard, Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001) unquestionably constituted a
major breakthrough. It was adopted under Chapter VII
of the Charter and obliges all States unequivocally and
dutifully to outlaw terrorist activities and their
supporters and sponsors, wherever they may be.
Algeria is fully cooperating with the international
community in the implementation of that universal
collective endeavour. Algeria stresses how important it
is that the resolution be strictly implemented and
reaffirms the imperative need for universal adherence
to existing international anti-terrorism instruments and
for the ratification of relevant regional instruments.
Algeria believes, inter alia, that the adoption of a
comprehensive convention to combat terrorism is
essential. For its part, my country is ready to cooperate
with other nations to achieve this as quickly as
possible.
The dangers that terrorism poses to global peace
and security highlight the need for a ruthless struggle
against it, in particular through dismantling bases and
networks, draining sources of financing, cooperating in
exchanging information and providing proper
equipment to countries that are victims of terrorism,
and reviewing permissive national legislation regarding
the right of asylum as well as the justification for
murder or planning criminal activities to be committed
in third countries.
While the urgency of this struggle has made it
possible to achieve notable progress in a few weeks,
we must be unanimous in our determination if we are
to confront the roots of terrorism — that is, we must
address the problems that constitute a breeding ground
for extremism and intolerance throughout the world.
This means that Islam, a religion of peace and
tolerance, cannot in any way be associated with
terrorism, which is alien to its values. It also
underscores the importance of ensuring that the anti-
terrorist struggle is not aimed at any one country,
religion, culture or civilization.
The United Nations, which has often diagnosed
and analysed the state of our world, has rightly
emphasized that problems tend to be of an economic,
political and social nature and that their causes are both
national and international. The denial of the right of
peoples to self-determination, the exacerbated
phenomena of exclusion and poverty, the persistence of
economic imbalances, the intensification of social
inequalities, the continued deterioration of the
environment and the pursuit of the arms race are all
problems awaiting solutions and concrete measures
that, in many cases, United Nations forums have
already defined and adopted in many cases adopted.
The commitments undertaken recently to make
globalization a factor of integration rather than of
exclusion — in particular the objectives enshrined in
the Millennium Declaration — take on full importance
here, since they highlight the urgent need for effective
measures to build a stable and united world on a solid
foundation. Today, reality amply demonstrates that
globalization, despite its enormous potential and
opportunities, has not yet yielded the expected results
with regard to the universal improvement of living
conditions. The processes to which it leads have too
often widened the existing cracks within societies and
exacerbated differences among nations. This has
encouraged marginal groups to exploit the difficult
social situations to which many peoples are subject and
to promote isolationism and rejection of the other.
The Declaration and Plan of Action adopted by
the Durban World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
provide a framework for inspiration and action to build
more harmonious and fraternal relations among people.
First of all, there is a need at the United Nations
level to set aright unacceptable situations of injustice
and denial of rights. In Palestine, the serious situation
that prevails as a result of the continued Israeli
occupation and its oppressive practices requires the
attention of the entire international community. It
demands urgent action to put an end to the daily trials
of the Palestinian people, who are subjected to a
deliberate policy by the Israeli army of intimidation,
25

abuse and murder. This policy is likely to endanger the
resumption of the peace process, taking the entire
region to the brink of a conflagration with incalculable
consequences.
Given the situation, Algeria reaffirms its total
solidarity with the Palestinian people and their
inalienable right to an independent State with Al-Quds
al-Sharif as its capital. Algeria urgently calls upon the
international community to ensure the protection of the
Palestinian people by sending international observers
to the region.
Algeria wishes to emphasize that only a solution
based on international legality — in particular Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) — as
well as on the principle of land for peace, adopted at
the Madrid Conference, can ensure just and lasting
peace and security for all the peoples of the region, as
Chairman Yasser Arafat indicated in his speech this
morning. Algeria would also like to reaffirm its
solidarity with the brotherly peoples of Syria and
Lebanon for the restoration of their lands still under
Israeli occupation. In addition, Algeria welcomes the
decision of the Security Council to lift the sanctions on
the brotherly people of Sudan and seizes the
opportunity to renew its appeal for the lifting of the
sanctions on the brotherly Iraqi and Libyan peoples.
The situation in the Western Sahara, where the
settlement process has been halted for more than a year
and a half, is also a source of great concern and a factor
of instability in the Maghreb and in Africa as a whole.
The United Nations Mission for the Referendum in
Western Sahara (MINURSO) has not been able to
continue the implementation of the settlement plan of
the United Nations and the Organization of African
Unity (OAU), though it had been accepted by the two
parties to the conflict, the Kingdom of Morocco and
the Frente Popular para la Liberación de Saguia el-
Hamra y del R'o de Oro (POLISARIO), in particular
because of the many challenges that followed the
identification stage.
Action by the United Nations in the Western
Sahara, carried out through MINURSO since 1991,
should be commended, and the progress made within
the framework of the implementation of the settlement
plan — in particular the identification of the electoral
body — should be maintained and consolidated. Here,
the two parties should be reminded of their obligation
to cooperate openly and sincerely with MINURSO, to
conclude the referendum process and to call upon the
bodies of the United Nations that deal with this issue to
strictly respect their mandate.
The unswerving position of Algeria on the issue
of the Western Sahara stems from its dedication to
international legality and to respect for the right of
people to self-determination. Algeria therefore supports
the holding of a free and transparent referendum,
organized by the United Nations that will allow this
people to decide on its destiny. Any effort or initiative
to settle that dispute must be part of the framework of
international legality and, in particular, of the
resolutions on decolonization adopted by the General
Assembly.
Elsewhere on the African continent, the
determination of African peoples and leaders and the
support of the international community are starting to
bear fruit in the areas of conflict prevention and
settlement. The Peace Agreement concluded in Algiers
in June 2000 between Ethiopia and Eritrea put an end
to a devastating two-year war between those two
brotherly African countries and opened the way to a
peaceful settlement of their dispute. The progress made
since the full deployment of the United Nations
Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea attests to the
commitment of those two countries to strengthening
the basis for a lasting peace and for mutually beneficial
cooperation.
Similarly, the implementation of the Lusaka
Ceasefire Agreement, which has long been plagued by
numerous difficulties, is now well under way. The
international community must pursue its efforts to
make the settlement process irreversible and to
facilitate the inter-Congolese dialogue.
Africa also welcomes the progress made in Sierra
Leone in the implementation of its disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration programmes, which
have been made possible by the courageous and
determined action of the United Nations Mission in
Sierra Leone.
Despite the positive developments that have
occurred in Angola there, UNITA continues to sow
death and destruction among the people of that country.
A return to security will require strict respect by all
States for the punitive measures laid down by the
Security Council against UNITA.
26

Finally, regarding recent events in Burundi, my
country welcomes the decision of the parties to the
conflict there to establish a transitional Government
that guarantees the participation of all the inhabitants
of that country in the management of their own affairs.
We hail the important role played by Mr. Nelson
Mandela in achieving understanding among the parties
in Burundi in the implementation of the Arusha
Agreement.
The end of the cold war eased the climate of
suspicion and distrust that permeated international
relations and was replaced by a measure of optimism
based on new prospects. We hope that this optimism
will signal an end to outdated doctrines and theories of
nuclear deterrence and the balance of terror and that it
will open the way to a bold approach to guaranteeing
the security of all States. Given this qualitative
transformation in international relations, our hope of
seeing our planet forever free of nuclear weapons and
other weapons of mass destruction is indeed
strengthened.
The need to establish renewable international
cooperation based on mutual interests and shared duties
and responsibilities is more urgent than ever before.
This new spirit must become an incentive for launching
comprehensive initiatives to seek a genuine
understanding of the problems plaguing the entire
world. In brief, we must prepare for international
governance that truly reflects the requirements of
rationality, transparency, justice, democratic
participation and responsibility, without which any
discussion of a new world order is meaningless and of
no use to humanity.
The progress that has been achieved at the
political and economic levels in several regions and
countries must be consolidated and enhanced through
the international promotion of good governance. In this
respect, the direct and indirect threats to sustainable
development that jeopardize the survival of our planet
require us all to mobilize on a vast scale in the context
of the World Summit on Sustainable Development.
Urgent measures must be taken to halt the devastating
effects of various means and types of production and
consumption that have become untenable. These must
be transformed in a qualitative way, taking into account
the needs of mankind as a whole.
In the same vein, the ministerial conference of the
World Trade Organization that opened in Doha two
days ago and the International Conference on
Financing for Development, to be held in a few months
in Mexico, are promising prospects for the lasting
resumption of growth in the developing countries and
for improving the living standards of their peoples.
Four months ago, African countries, meeting at
the 37th Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity in Lusaka, clearly
expressed Africa’s official response to the new needs
and aspirations of its peoples through their solemn
launching of the transitional process towards the
African Union and their adoption of the New African
Initiative. These steps form an integral part of the
reform process undertaken over the past few years by
the African countries at the national, regional and
continental levels to bring Africa into step with an
ever-changing world.
Aware of the magnitude of the challenges facing
the continent and of the need to acquire a global
integrated programme for the social and economic
recovery of the continent, African leaders at the Lusaka
summit adopted a plan that was conceived by and for
Africa. Algeria, which actively participated in the
creation and drafting of the New Partnership for
African Development, believes that this programme
will open the way to practical solutions to the
economic and social problems of Africa. Thus, in order
for our Organization to bolster its credibility and
effectiveness, to address the great changes on the
international scene and to be more responsive to the
aspirations of this global village, it must earnestly
pursue its transformation and be more open to the
world and to itself.
It is also necessary to ensure greater democracy
and fairness within the United Nations system, in
particular in the maintenance of international peace and
security. The Security Council incontestably requires a
drastic reform of its processes and membership. In a
word, the United Nations must serve the great family
of mankind as a whole.
"
56,2001,BTN,"﻿I congratulate the
President on his assumption of the difficult role of
guiding the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.
This session is being held during one of the saddest
moments in the history of our Organization. Let me
assure the President of the full support of my
delegation in the discharge of his most important
functions.
The twenty-first century will forever be
remembered for the fiery hell that engulfed the world
on that dark day of a cloudless sky on 11 September.
The horrific images of passenger aircraft flying to their
doom to cause great death, grief and despair to
countless people will always be a scar on our
individual and collective memory. Surely, failure to
bring to justice those guilty of that crime, and those
who follow the same path, would mean our collective
submission to an endless reign of terror and to fearful
darkness.
It is the wish of the Government and the people
of Bhutan that I should, once again, express our
solidarity with the Government and the people of the
United States and convey our heartfelt sympathy to
those who have suffered the irreparable loss of their
loved and dear ones. We admire the way in which the
people of this great nation have come together to rise to
the challenges that the tragic events have left in their
wake. We pay tribute to the brave and the selfless who
laid down their own lives as they fought to save those
of others. Our hearts and minds are with the city of
New York, which has not only been a gracious host to
the United Nations, but is unparalleled in its generosity
in giving shelter, livelihood, hope and joy to people of
all races and creeds. Indeed, it came as no surprise that
the scale of the tragedy made itself felt not only in the
devastatingly high number of victims, but in the fact
that people from more than 80 countries were counted
among the dead.
A small part of everyone died that day, for
reasons that can never be explained or justified. Indeed,
human society has been left to ponder its claim to
being civilized.
Until the tragedy of 11 September, the threat of
terrorism was not fully appreciated. Those who had not
felt its demonic wrath tolerated it as just another
manifestation of social or political discontent. The
current environment throughout the globalized world
has harshly and most cruelly removed such
misconceptions. People all over the world are losing
their freedom, willingly or without choice, in a
multitude of ways. And there is a pervasive sense of
fear. Freedom is a heavy price to pay for anything.
Civilized society ought to provide more liberty, not be
cowed into affording less.
The disease that is the cause must be stamped out.
A determined and coordinated approach by all
countries is the indispensable key. To this end, the
United Nations must play the central role. It must
inspire, unite and act. It must be behind all individual
country, group and global efforts. In this context, the
important initiative taken by the Security Council in
resolution 1373 (2001) is to be welcomed. However,
we must remember that its impact will be determined
not so much by the letter as by the spirit with which it
is accepted and implemented by all Member States.
For its part, Bhutan will make every effort to
fulfil its duty as a Member State and a nation that is
fully committed to the eradication of terrorism. Today,
I signed the International Convention for the
32

Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, and in due
course our legislature will clear the way for accession
to the other conventions relating to international
terrorism.
The reign of terrorists in Afghanistan is coming
to an end. It is our hope that the healing of the deep
and painful wounds suffered interminably by the
helpless and innocent victims will begin immediately.
We also hope that, in the coming years, they will be
able to find the environment of peace and security that
has eluded them for too long. Unfortunately, the period
of renewal and reconstruction at the individual,
community and national levels will be long and
arduous for a country that has been reduced to rubble
by war and its ravaging companions. We appeal to the
international community to give sustained support to
Afghanistan in a way that is sympathetic and
responsive to its immediate and long-term needs, while
respecting fully the dignity of its proud people.
Even as we call for sustained and adequate
assistance to Afghanistan, we must acknowledge that
the world is still reeling from the aftershocks of the
attacks of 11 September. The cumulative impact on a
world economy that was already following a downward
trend has yet to be seen. There are other disturbing
uncertainties. Clearly, there is a need to better define
and understand the scope and limits of the war on
terrorism so that the fears of the broader clash that is
being spoken of are calmed. How do we create a
climate that can prevent the further diversion of
resources to defence? Will the onslaught be protracted
and consumptive in terms of our combined energy and
resources? Amid such doubts and concerns, it is natural
that we should worry about how the international
community might be able to deliver on the hopes that
were raised by the Millennium Declaration a year ago.
Our capacity to fight HIV/AIDS and poverty becomes
questionable, especially within the time frame we have
set for ourselves.
Against such a backdrop, the growing challenge
will be how to share and give in difficult times. How
does one give beyond the bounds of disposable
surplus? As the representative of a developing country,
I say this without wishing to undermine the greater
importance of raising domestic revenues and devoting
them to meeting the targets set. In this context, the
defining moment will be offered at the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Mexico.
Now more than ever it is necessary to reform the
Security Council. We cannot continue to procrastinate
on this vital issue. The Council has to be a truly
representative body if it is to be relevant, respected and
effective. That is not possible when vast continents and
significant populations in the world are left out of
crucial decision-making processes on international
peace and security. Without fair representation, the
Council will risk emasculation — faltering on making
decisions that are implemented feebly.
The serious humanitarian, political and economic
consequences of the terrorist acts demand unity of
thought and action on the part of all nations. Terrorism
must be rooted out. Yet, as in the conduct of our
everyday life, there is a need for balance and
moderation. Just as the reasons for soul-searching and
doubt in ourselves as civilized beings are compelling, it
is my earnest hope that the success of this session will
be marked by the profundity of collective wisdom and
commitment to restore lasting security, peace and
normality.








"
56,2001,VNM,"﻿I am
again the last speaker of the day, but I am happy
because it gives me a little extra time to congratulate
the President on the effective manner in which he is
conducting the work of the session, which gives us
every reason to believe that it will be steered to a
fruitful conclusion.
I wish also to extend our heartfelt condolences
and sympathy to the families of the plane crash victims
of yesterday. Let us pray that it had nothing to do with
terrorist acts, as the tragic events of 11 September
alone were more than enough to bring to the fore the
fight against terrorism as one of the top priorities of the
United Nations and the international community.
Cognizant of the distinction between terrorism and the
struggle to exercise a people’s right to self-
determination, Viet Nam persistently condemns
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, which
takes a heavy toll of innocent lives. We fully support
the international endeavour and cooperation to ensure
world peace, stability and security in full conformity
with the United Nations Charter and with fundamental
principles of international law, particularly those
respecting national independence and sovereignty. No
individual country can go solo or have double
standards in this fight. While members of the
international community must act in a responsible
manner by not tolerating, nurturing and/or supporting
terrorists on their soil, they should also bring the
terrorists to justice or extradite them to the country
where their crimes were committed, so that they can be
duly punished.
Though combating international terrorism has
become the pressing task of the day, it must not
overshadow the challenges of the twenty-first century.
Poverty, the widened development gap, the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, the deteriorating environment, regional
tensions and conflicts, all point to the potential
instability of the world today, as mentioned by our
leaders a year ago. The Summit Declaration, in
reflecting the genuine wishes and resolve of the
world’s peoples, vigorously reconfirmed the values and
principles of the Charter, defining the priority
objectives of the United Nations and the international
community for the years to come, thus becoming our
platform, our programme of action for the new
millennium. To implement the Declaration at the global
level, the United Nations last year conducted numerous
activities, including the organization of a series of
special sessions in the economic, social and security
fields. The international organizations in the United
Nations system — such as the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) —
are actively coordinating with nations to incorporate in
their national programmes the specific objectives set
forth in the Summit Declaration. This is a significant
start which should be further promoted, as the most
pressing challenge to us all is how to eradicate poverty
on a global scale. In this spirit we wish to congratulate
the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who started his
second term in office with the Nobel Peace Prize. We
are fully convinced that the Secretary-General will
continue to contribute to the cause of all nations and
peoples.
Against the backdrop of globalization
spearheaded by the information technology revolution,
the other side of international political and economic
life has been further exposed. The gap between rich
and poor has widened further, and adverse
circumstances in international relations have emerged,
further underscoring the disadvantage and vulnerability
of the developing countries. The Secretary-General
once said words to the effect that poverty and the gap
between rich and poor are the seeds of instability and
precarious development, and that today’s main
challenge is how to ensure that globalization becomes
the driving force of development instead of leaving a
billion people in abject poverty. A common concern at
present, however, is the tendency towards decreasing
official development assistance (ODA), particularly the
decrease in contributions to the development
organizations in the United Nations system, which will
surely hamper their activities. More than ever before,
the United Nations, the international community, the
developed countries in particular, should further assist
the developing countries in the eradication of poverty,
disease and illiteracy, and facilitate their fuller and
equitable participation in international economic life.
Development requires an environment of peace
and stability. But complex implications arising from
the conflicts in some parts of the world and the
possible intensification of an arms race, are not
conducive to development at all. Of particular concern
is the escalation of violence in the Middle East. We
join the community of world peoples calling for an
42

early end to violence, the resumption of peaceful
negotiations for a just, long-lasting solution in which
the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and the
legitimate rights of all parties concerned, would be
guaranteed. By the same token, the embargoes imposed
upon Cuba, Iraq and Libya, which cause untold
suffering to these peoples, should be lifted so as to
enable them to concentrate their energy and efforts on
national reconstruction and development.
This year, South-East Asia has witnessed certain
complex developments, but peace, stability and
cooperation remain the burning aspiration of our
peoples and continue to be the main tendency. The
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN)
countries are determined to build a zone of peace,
development and prosperity and to coordinate efforts to
effectively cope with regional and global challenges. In
that context, the success of the 34th Ministerial
Meeting, the eighth ASEAN Regional Forum held in
Hanoi last August and the ASEAN Summit held in
Brunei Darussalam in early November, all contributed
to establishing priorities and effective measures for the
future of this region. These meetings reaffirmed
ASEAN’s determination to further promote solidarity,
cooperation, dialogue and mutual understanding within
ASEAN, and between ASEAN countries and their
dialogue partners, especially China, Japan and the
Republic of Korea, for the peaceful settlement of their
differences on the basis of respect for fundamental
principles and norms of international law, particularly
those regarding consensus and non-interference in the
internal affairs of others. The Hanoi Declaration on
Narrowing the Development Gap for Closer ASEAN
Integration and other important documents were
adopted on confidence-building and the promotion of
mutual understanding for peace and stability in South-
East Asia, as well as in Asia and the Pacific. They
welcomed the promising progress in the ASEAN-China
consultation regarding a code of conduct in the Eastern
Sea, reaffirming those principles of the 1992 ASEAN
Manila Declaration on the settlement of conflicting
claims of territorial sovereignty in the Eastern Sea. We
sincerely hope that the United Nations and the
international community, in line with the Millennium
Declaration, will deliver active support and assistance
to the implementation of our regional cooperation for
peace, stability and development in the region and
throughout the world.
In the course of 15 years of rebuilding, Viet Nam
has recorded great achievements in all fields. The ninth
Party Congress has drawn necessary lessons from our
own experiences, reaffirmed our resolve to continue the
course, stepping up industrialization and modernization
programmes, and mapping out the socio-economic
development strategy for the years 2001 to 2010. While
trying to bring into full play our inner strength, we will
create more favourable conditions to attract investment
and expand further effective cooperation with foreign
partners and countries. We will continue to pursue our
foreign policy of independence, openness, international
economic integration, friendship and trusted
partnership with all countries in the international
community in the endeavour for peace, independence
and development.
The Millennium Summit and its Declaration
provided us with a momentum in the new millennium,
which should be maintained through the active
implementation of the guidelines unanimously
endorsed by our leaders. The United Nations and each
Member State should make efforts to achieve those
objectives.
In order to contribute effectively to the common
cause, the United Nations should speed up the process
of reform, renovation and democratization. Viet Nam
fully supports the central role of the General Assembly,
the highest representative body of the whole
membership, and the reform and expansion of the
Security Council in both the non-permanent and
permanent categories. The developing countries should
have fuller representation and participation in the
Council’s decision-making. But it is of the utmost
importance that the United Nations should design
measures to concentrate resources for development and
the eradication of poverty and for the other major
objectives included in the Millennium Declaration. It is
the expectation of the whole membership that the
United Nations should become a worthy world body,
operating in a more effective manner in the interests of
all countries and for a just, humanistic and better world
in the new millennium. We believe that the United
Nations will surely live up to this expectation and Viet
Nam pledges to contribute actively to this common
endeavour."
56,2001,TUV,"﻿I am honoured to address
the General Assembly. Speaking on behalf of the
people and the Government of Tuvalu, I extend
Tuvalu’s greetings to the Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session and our congratulations to the President and the
Vice-Presidents of the Assembly on their election. I
22

also pledge Tuvalu’s full support and cooperation
during their term of office.
As we come to the end of this general debate, we
are still overshadowed by the loss of many innocent
lives and property as the result of the barbaric terrorist
attack on America in September. We are further
saddened by the losses earlier this week resulting from
the plane accident in our host state, New York, and our
host country, America. Tuvalu therefore joins others in
reiterating to the people and Government of America
our strong condemnation of the terrorist attacks and our
pledge of strong solidarity with the United States of
America.
Let me also convey Tuvalu’s deepest sorrow and
sympathy to the families of the victims of the plane
crash, and offer our prayers to the people and
Government of America, and equally to the people and
Government of the Dominican Republic. We wholly
share their bereavement and grief.
As the newest Member of the United Nations,
having joined on the eve of the historic Millennium
Summit last year, Tuvalu is more than ever aware of its
responsibilities to the United Nations and what the
Organization stands for. In June this year, Tuvalu
established its Permanent Mission here in New York.
Although this has been costly, Tuvalu believes the cost
is offset by what the United Nations stands for. Our
presence in the General Assembly reflects a basic
belief we hold true: that the United Nations, through its
enfranchising activities, can help Tuvalu and other
countries like us by being an advocate with regard to
the issues that concern us most.
Tuvalu is proud that the Nobel Peace Prize for
2001 was awarded to our Secretary-General and the
United Nations itself. This award is a telling
recognition of the vast contributions the United
Nations has made in so many fields and on so many
fronts: to peace around the world; to the protection of
the individual, no matter his or her origin or
circumstances; and to the upholding of the basic United
Nations principle that every human being should have
every opportunity to lead a better and more fulfilling
life. We congratulate the Secretary-General and the
Organization for this recognition.
There is no doubt in Tuvalu that peace and
stability are indispensable to the well-being of
freedom-loving people everywhere. The world cannot
ignore threats to peace and stability, no matter what
their causes may be, be they economic, social or
environmental. The terrorist attacks in the United
States of America and what has happened around the
world since 11 September have made those of us here
in this great Hall today feel very anxious. However, the
very cause of this anxiety points clearly to the proper
role of the United Nations. The General Assembly
must be a strong advocate of what the Secretary-
General, in his new road map, calls a new “culture of
prevention”.
In our view, pursuit of this new culture is worthy
and must take advantage of the new spirit of
cooperation that is now emerging to facilitate the
elimination of the causes of terrorism and threats to
peace and stability. In this regard, it is imperative to
address problems in an open and representative
dialogue based on consensus and mutual respect and
understanding.
The consensus-building approach that we in the
Pacific region often call the “Pacific way” may well
prove useful in our collective venture for universal
cooperation. Tuvalu is committed to its obligation to
adhere to the United Nations resolutions to eliminate
terrorism, and thus is taking steps to accede to the 12
United Nations and international conventions on
terrorism. But to honour such obligations in practice is
easier said than done. We need technical and financial
support from the international community to build up
our legislative, surveillance and enforcement tools if
we are to have any hope of meeting these obligations
beyond our present capabilities.
Also, we must not lose sight of the need for
strong coalitions to deal with other pressing global
issues, including conflicts and wars; the challenges of
globalization; poverty and underdevelopment; and the
effects of environmental degradation and climate
change.
Universal cooperation against threats to peace
and stability cannot, however, be fully achieved as long
as the United Nations lacks the will to recognize fair
and just representation within it of a democratic and
economically developed State with a population of 23
million. The Republic of China on Taiwan is also
suffering in the aftermath of the 11 September terrorist
attacks, having lost innocent lives as well as property.
Like us, they suffer from the onslaught of natural
disasters; epidemics and diseases, including the HIV/
AIDS pandemic; and other threats of instability.
23

Yet in all these crises, and despite their enormous
contribution to the world economy and international
development — including technological
advancement — as well as their consistent
demonstration of international responsibility, the
people of the Republic of China on Taiwan have been
left to fend for themselves, denied the right to proper
representation and collaboration, not only in the United
Nations and its specialized agencies, such as the World
Health Organization, but in nearly every other
intergovernmental body. The voice with which they
could share their plight and thereby benefit from world
cooperation is silenced. However, the irony is that for
more than 50 years, no authority other than the
Republic of China on Taiwan itself has had full
sovereign control over Taiwan, its population and the
running of its affairs. To visit the country, for example,
one must have immigration papers issued by its own
authorities.
While we welcome the wise decision of the
World Trade Organization last week to admit the
Republic of China on Taiwan, it is Tuvalu’s strong
view that the United Nations must take the lead and
seriously reconsider United Nations membership for
the Republic of China on Taiwan, beyond the politics
of exclusion and on the basis of the reality of things.
In Tuvalu and many other countries in the Pacific,
we know that our economic vulnerability is fertile
ground for forces of terror that can threaten the security
and survival not only of the islands, but also of the
region and the world. We are worried about the
growing global interdependence and what that may
bring to our shores. We need to improve our ability to
share and disseminate information on transnational
crimes, particularly those involving drug trafficking,
money laundering, bogus investments, and other
dangerous and dubious schemes that often arrive in the
Pacific islands under the pretext of being legitimate.
We believe that, if we are left on our own, these
threats will continue to expose Tuvalu and other Pacific
island countries to forces outside our control. It is vital,
therefore, that individual Pacific island Governments
be given the back-up that is needed to boost their
ability to tackle security threats and fight crime. The
existing regional security arrangements under the
Pacific Islands Forum and its sister regional agencies
in the Pacific can, indeed, play a vital role. However,
they need to be further strengthened to enable them to
complement national security efforts more effectively.
Further solidifying of cooperation between our regional
organizations and the United Nations, moreover, is
fundamental to the success of national and regional
efforts vital for regional and global security.
I should like to add here that Tuvalu highly
commends the role played by the United Nations and
other international organizations and major countries in
helping restore peace in the Pacific following the
recent turbulence in the region.
Tuvalu is not in a good position to take advantage
of the opportunities offered by trade liberalization.
Like many island countries, Tuvalu currently lacks the
know-how, trained people and adequate infrastructure
to reap the benefits that are enjoyed here. If there is
benefit for Tuvalu in a free trade world — and we
believe there is — then surely Tuvalu must have in
place the means that would allow us to reap that
benefit.
In more ways than one, small island developing
States such as Tuvalu are at the sharp end, the cutting
edge, of development. For us, overseas development
aid is indispensable to the development and sustenance
of basic services necessary for security and survival.
Our priorities continue to be education, health services
and fresh water.
While we commend with great appreciation the
generosity of our development partners, particularly
our traditional partners, it has to be noted that Tuvalu
and other small island developing States, like the
landlocked and least developed countries and other
developing countries, will for some time continue to
rely on external financing through official development
assistance to address their unique development needs.
In our view, the International Conference on
Financing for Development and the World Summit on
Sustainable Development, both of which will be held
next year, must also capitalize on the premises laid out
under the reviewed Barbados Programme of Action for
the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States, the outcome of the United Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries and the
Secretary-General’s road map towards the
implementation of the United Nations Millennium
Declaration as the key tools to address the unique
circumstances and vulnerabilities of small island
developing States. Ultimately, this must lead to more
effective delivery of assistance that is flexible and
more responsive to the sustainable development needs
24

of small island developing States and of developing
countries in general.
With limited exploitable resources, Tuvalu, like
many other small island developing States, relies
heavily on the surrounding seas for its food security
and economic development. The proper protection of
the oceans from hazardous pollution is therefore vital,
and the sustainable management and exploitation of
fisheries and other marine resources is extremely
important to our sustainable development and survival.
Building local capacity to conserve, manage and
harvest marine resources in a sustainable manner is
crucial and should therefore be supported.
As has already been said in this debate, the
biggest long-term threat to the people of Tuvalu is
posed by the effects of climate change, in particular
rising sea levels. Recent reports released by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have
confirmed beyond doubt the correlation between
accelerated atmospheric warming and sea-level rise. In
Tuvalu too it is our strong belief that the weather is
growing more severe, hotter and drier, and that there
have been unusually high seas eroding foreshores and
intruding into freshwater lenses. We believe that the
cumulative effect of carbon dioxide emissions in
industrial and other countries into the atmosphere has,
in sum, created a future that is very uncertain in
Tuvalu.
It may not be known in this Hall but unique
within the United Nations membership are the
Maldives, the Marshall Islands, Kiribati and Tuvalu.
Those four countries are the only Member States that
consist entirely of low-lying coral atolls and reef
islands. In the event of further rising sea levels, where
are we to hide? Eventually asking countries to take us
in as environmental refugees is not what Tuvalu is after
in the long run. What we prefer is that our great-
grandchildren should grow up the way I did and the
way my wife and our brothers and sisters did in our
island communities, learning the traditions, customs
and culture of Tuvalu, and living our way of life.
Tuvalu is not alone in sharing that view. Tens of
millions of people who live on islands or in coastal
communities face the gloomy onslaught of rising sea
levels. Such vulnerable geography is everywhere. How
ironic it would be if decades from now the last Member
to enter the United Nations, Tuvalu, were the first
Member State to withdraw because it had disappeared
without a trace.
In the shrinking world we live in, environmental
pollution has never known artificial boundaries. The
presence of higher than normal levels of greenhouse
gases in the atmosphere is a legacy of development in
industrial countries spanning the past 200 years. I hope
that industrial countries realize that nature is now
imposing a penalty for that development.
Unfortunately, it is Tuvalu and others with little or
nothing to do with the causes which are now forced to
pay.
While we are heartened by the positive outcome
of the seventh Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
held at Marrakesh, and while we are looking forward to
the full implementation of that Convention and of the
Kyoto Protocol commitments, we would also hope that
goodwill will prevail beyond instruments and
conventions to assist those most affected to adapt to the
immediate and long-term effects of climate change.
This is not the time to shrink from environmental
and survival responsibility. Like the international war
being waged against terrorism, a global solution to the
threat posed by climate change and sea-level rise will
save Tuvalu and many other small island States from
disappearing. Our collective resolve to remove causes
of terrorism and threats to peace and security, including
poverty and underdevelopment, HIV/AIDS and
environmental degradation, will ensure a truly peaceful
and secure village for all of humanity.
May God bless the United Nations; may God
bless its peoples.




"
56,2001,SWZ,"﻿It is an honour and
privilege for me to deliver this statement on behalf of
His Majesty King Mswati III. I wish to convey the
greetings and warm wishes of His Majesty, Her
Majesty The Queen Mother, Ndlovukazi, the
Government and the entire Swazi nation to all our
friends and fellow Members of the United Nations.
The Kingdom of Swaziland offers her warmest
congratulations to the President on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. We are confident that with his proven abilities
and leadership, he will guide us to success in our
deliberations at this time of crisis in global affairs.
Allow me to express our appreciation to his
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Harri Holkeri, of
Finland, who, by his astute and judicious leadership,
brought to a successful conclusion the work of the
fifty-fifth session.
The Kingdom of Swaziland would further like to
commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for
leading our Organization so effectively through his
tenure thus far. We will continue to depend on his
highly developed sense of diplomacy and his
undoubted commitment to achieve global peace,
stability and equitable development. The recent award
of the Nobel Peace Prize to both the Secretary-General
and the United Nations attests to the aforementioned
attributes.
We are also grateful for the continuing dedication
and hard work of the staff of the United Nations, whose
efforts are needed all the more in these challenging
times. In this regard, we call upon all our fellow
Members to demonstrate their support for the
Secretary-General and his staff by honouring their
financial obligations, so that our Organization can have
sufficient resources with which to meet the widening
scope of its activities.
We are meeting one year after the historic
gathering of world leaders, when the international
community sought to redefine and articulate a common
vision for the future of all its citizens. The goals to be
achieved were clearly set out in the Millennium
Declaration as an outcome of the Millennium Summit.
Today we have the opportunity — indeed, the
responsibility — to evaluate just how far we have come
in that mission which we set for ourselves through this
Organization. We need to address honestly our
shortcomings in commitment and action and to further
devise practical and realistic strategies that will result
in measurable progress in areas identified for urgent
action.
The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore believes
that the promotion of sustainable international peace
and security must be one of the main priorities of the
United Nations, because it is clear that our collective
aim of raising the living standard of our peoples is
36

possible only in conditions of global stability and with
nations living harmoniously alongside one another.
The Kingdom of Swaziland joined the rest of the
world in condemnation of the tragic terrorist attacks of
11 September, to which the international community
must respond because such acts are an assault on
human decency and humanity. These acts cannot be
justified under any circumstances. The Kingdom of
Swaziland repudiates such acts and aligns itself with all
peace-loving people around the world not only in
condemning such acts, but also in calling for their
complete eradication. To that end, the Kingdom of
Swaziland will do all in its power to prevent acts of
terrorism and to ensure that the support and financing
of terrorism cannot take root on Swazi soil. We once
more offer our sympathy and prayers to the families
and friends of those who lost their lives in the tragedy.
Future global stability is threatened by the spread
of weapons of mass destruction, as well as the
unabated proliferation of small arms and light
weapons. Vigorous and urgent efforts are needed to
eliminate these weapons. In this regard, we welcome
the successful conclusion of the United Nations
Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, as well as of
the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We
deem their outcomes timely and necessary.
While much has been done through the process of
reform effected by the Secretary-General, it is also
recognized that there has been very little progress made
so far by the Open-ended Working Group to address
the most important aspect of the reform: the
restructuring of the Security Council. More intensified
efforts should be made to bring to a conclusion the
deliberations on this issue, and we look forward to the
leadership of the President of the General Assembly in
advancing negotiations towards a lasting solution. The
Kingdom of Swaziland is still committed to the process
of the reform for the expansion of the Security Council
in both categories of its membership. In that regard, we
continue to support the African position in favour of
two permanent seats and three non-permanent seats
being allocated to the African continent.
The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that the
United Nations, in conjunction with regional
organizations, must take on a more proactive role in
preventive diplomacy to head off potentially explosive
situations. We need an effective early warning
capability to deal with emerging conflicts and much
closer collaboration between the Security Council and
the Office of the Secretary-General in our efforts to
meet security challenges wherever they may occur.
At this time, our Organization is understandably
focused on global security. The crisis in the peace
process between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is
a component of the overall challenge and continues to
pose a significant threat to security in both the Middle
East and the wider world at large. The Kingdom of
Swaziland believes that the only solution to the
continuing instability in that region is through peaceful
dialogue and a return to the spirit of compromise and
understanding that has characterized the relationship
between the two sides in the past. We commend the
efforts of all who are trying to bring lasting,
sustainable peace to the Middle East, and we offer our
encouragement and support for the achievement of this
goal.
On the African continent, security challenges
continue to cause suffering and restrict the
development of many millions of our people. While
this is undeniable, it is also clear that Africa itself is
taking on the responsibility to find solutions to the
crises affecting a number of its nations. The peace
processes in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Eritrea and Angola
all have benefited from the involvement of our regional
and subregional groupings and from the efforts of
dedicated African men and women. The Kingdom of
Swaziland supports unequivocally these efforts, and we
join our fellow African Member States in calling for
continued and enhanced support from the United
Nations and individual countries and for commitments
in word to be followed up by action.
In developmental terms, there is a new wind
blowing through all the African countries, bringing
fresh hope to our peoples for improved standards of
living and the removal of the burdens of the past. A
series of historic agreements by all African countries
indicates a new era of optimism for the continent, as
well as the start of a new relationship with the rest of
the world. The continent will no longer tolerate the
notion of unconstitutional Governments, and we have
all confirmed our belief that transparency and
accountability are the watchwords of governance that
places people at the centre of development.
37

We also believe that trade with the rest of the
world is the lifeblood of our developing economies,
encouraging the creation of businesses and inward and
local investment and increasing employment. We
therefore commend those countries and trading blocs
that recognize the importance to Africa of freeing up
their markets for our goods and services and encourage
others to follow suit.
The birth of the African Union is a signal to the
rest of the world that Africa means business and is
ready to back up its words with action. The New
African Initiative proposes a partnership that is based
on support for an Africa that recognizes and accepts its
responsibilities from a world that understands our
priorities for development. We commend the initiative
to those who are in a position to help Africa emerge
from the disappointments of the past into a prosperous
and secure future.
We are on the edge of a global recession, and its
effects will be felt hardest among those of us in the
developing world. After a decade of encouraging talk
of the benefits of globalization, we are discovering the
hard truth: that we are nowhere near the stage of being
able to gain advantage from a world of liberalized
trade. This must now surely be plain for anyone to see.
Globalization in its unfettered form is likely to do
more harm than good to the small, vulnerable
economies unless measures are put in place to protect
them in the short to medium term. There must be
agreed ground rules to regulate the conduct of free
trade in goods and services to ensure an equitable
exchange between unequal partners.
Considering the intrinsic link between peace,
security and development, the United Nations has an
even bigger responsibility to increase its efforts to
secure resources to finance development, especially for
those of us most at risk in these times of economic
uncertainty. We believe it is the responsibility of the
wider international community to continue to provide
resources to assist developing countries to fight their
way out of poverty.
The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to develop
confidently and peacefully, according to the wishes of
its people. Our review of the Constitution was
completed earlier this year, and the recommendations
of the people will now be drafted into a legal document
for final approval by the Swazi nation next year. This
vital nation-building process will result in a
Constitution that is based entirely on the wishes of the
people themselves, and we are confident that it will
serve the best interests of the Kingdom for many
generations to come.
Poverty alleviation remains the top priority for
the Kingdom, and we continue to make great efforts to
achieve this aim through a series of economic
measures, such as investment attraction, increased
trade and the stimulation of local entrepreneurship. We
are embarking on an ambitious programme to
maximize the potential of our tourism and industry
sectors, and in this we need the support of the
international financial institutions, as well as the
United Nations Development Programme.
Despite our best efforts, and in common with all
developing countries, the Kingdom is finding progress
difficult to achieve in the face of huge obstacles, with
the greatest undoubtedly being the threat to our future
posed by the HIV/AIDS crisis. During the United
Nations special session on HIV/AIDS held here in
June, we made clear the scale of the disaster facing our
nation. There is no doubt that the spread of HIV among
the population represents our greatest development
challenge, and we are working hard in a combined,
national effort to overcome the devastating effects of
the pandemic.
However, we cannot do this alone. We need
substantial support to implement our strategy of
education, prevention, care and counselling. Finances,
drugs, expertise and guidance are all urgently required.
The very survival of our nation is at stake, and we
appeal once more to the United Nations and to the
international community at large not to abandon us at
this moment of supreme necessity.
It could be said that there has been an
inauspicious start to the twenty-first century, with the
globalization of terrorism and the reality of a global
economic recession at the forefront of our minds. This
places all the more responsibility on the United Nations
to harness the resources and commitment of the
citizens of the world for the benefit of humankind. In
this regard, there is a compelling need to include all
peoples of the world, as envisaged by our founding
fathers and as enshrined in the principle of universality.
Acknowledging the importance of this principle,
the Kingdom of Swaziland raises once more the
question of the inclusion of the Republic of China on
Taiwan in the activities of the United Nations and its
38

associated agencies. We appeal on behalf of the 23
million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan for
their right to representation in the United Nations
Organization. The Government and people of the
Republic of China on Taiwan have shown themselves
to be wholly committed to observing the principles and
spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and of the Charter of the United Nations.
In addition to the peaceful democratic transition
that took place last year, the recent admission of the
Republic of China on Taiwan to the World Trade
Organization attests to the significant contribution the
Republic of China has made and will continue to make
to international trade. The Republic of China on
Taiwan has shown time and again its willingness to
participate in efforts to bring about true global peace,
development and security, and its commitment to
utilize its resources for the benefit of mankind.
The Kingdom of Swaziland has been at the
forefront of efforts to support the readmittance of the
Republic of China on Taiwan to the United Nations.
Our position on this important issue remains
unchanged. We therefore appeal to our fellow Members
to support the establishment of a working group to
examine in detail the exceptional international situation
relating to the Republic of China on Taiwan, with a
view to ensuring that its 23 million people can
contribute actively to the international community
through participation in the United Nations and its
related agencies.
At the Millennium Summit, we the Member
States of the United Nations agreed to seize the
opportunity to forge a new era of optimism for the
world, based on equality, peace and prosperity. That
opportunity is fading fast, and we need to redouble our
efforts and determination to make that vision a reality.
The Kingdom of Swaziland renews its commitment to
the Charter and aims of the United Nations and offers
to its fellow Members assurances of continued support
for all activities that will help the world to achieve a
better future for all its peoples."
56,2001,MLI,"﻿At the
outset, I would like to express our condolences to the
Governments of the United States and the Dominican
32

Republic, and to the families of the victims of this
morning’s tragic plane crash.
I express my warmest congratulations to Mr. Han
Seung-soo on his election as President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. I wish to assure him
of my delegation’s complete support in the exercise of
his difficult and lofty mission. I am convinced that,
with his experience and talents as a seasoned diplomat,
he will guide our discussions to success. To his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, I would like to express
my sincerest and warmest congratulations on the
competence, dedication, effectiveness and authority
that he displayed throughout his term of office, which
was so rich in important events for the life of our
Organization.
May I also take this opportunity to congratulate
Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election to the post of
Secretary-General of our Organization, and I would
like once again to express to him Mali’s deepest
appreciation for his steadfast efforts and his
determination in the quest for a better world in the face
of the many and complex challenges of the world of
today. The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to the
United Nations and to Mr. Annan reflects the work
accomplished by the Secretary-General over the past
five years and is a source of legitimate pride to me as
an African.
Our fifty-sixth session is of particular importance,
being held as it is in the aftermath of the brutal terrorist
attacks that plunged the American nation into
mourning on 11 September 2001. The Government of
Mali has firmly condemned these heinous acts and
expressed its solidarity with the American people and
its support for the fight against terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations. Mali has already taken the
measures necessary for the implementation of Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), inter alia, through the
establishment of an inter-ministerial committee in
charge of implementing and coordinating international
measures. We have also undertaken to ratify various
conventions against terrorism in order to complete the
vital legal arsenal that we need to make a complete
contribution to the collective international efforts under
the auspices of the United Nations, and also to regional
actions. In this respect, in addition to the Organization
of the Islamic Conference Convention on Combating
International Terrorism, we appeal for the entry into
force of the important Organization of African Unity
Convention on the Prevention and Combating of
Terrorism, adopted at Algiers in July 1999. We also
call for an effective partnership with Africa to
strengthen its capacity to combat terrorism.
The terrorist acts of 11 September, incompatible
with the lofty and tolerant message of Islam, have
clearly shown the vulnerability of our current
international system and have emphasized the need for
increased international cooperation in order to deal
with this situation. This is why the tragic events of 11
September 2001 call for the action now being taken
against terrorism, but they also mean that we must in
the medium and long term reflect on the further ways
of combating terrorism that we must devise. But above
all, these events mean that we must endeavour
vigorously to implement the Millennium Declaration
programme of action in order to ensure prosperity for
the largest possible number of people.
In this context, Mali advocates integrated,
sustained global action in which the United Nations
should play the primary role. While reiterating Africa’s
appeal for the holding of an international conference on
terrorism, under the auspices of the United Nations,
Mali intends to support the initiatives of the Secretary-
General and of his Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar
Brahimi, whom we congratulate on his appointment.
Deeply concerned by the humanitarian situation in
Afghanistan, we call for increased and coordinated
emergency humanitarian assistance for the Afghan
people.
The maintenance of peace and security requires
strict control of weapons. Mali will actively and
resolutely continue to support international and
regional efforts in the field of disarmament and the
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other
weapons of mass destruction. The question of small
arms, as we see it, is another source of concern. In fact,
small arms contribute to the breakdown of the social
balance, fuel conflicts and destabilize States, thus
jeopardizing all development efforts.
Mali, which hosted the African preparatory
conference, will work towards the success of a follow-
up to the conclusions of the United Nations Conference
on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons
in All Its Aspects and towards the full implementation
of the Programme of Action resulting from that
important Conference. The West African experience in
this respect constitutes an important initiative to be
supported through the declaration of an Economic
33

Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
moratorium on the importation, exportation and
manufacture of small arms and light weapons and the
Programme for Coordination and Assistance for
Security and Development in Africa.
The West African subregion remains
characterized by the persistence of conflict, a high
level of poverty, illicit trade in weapons and the
proliferation of armed bands. In order to deal with
these conflicts, ECOWAS has given priority to a
regional approach for the prevention and management
of conflicts in order to deal with the root causes of
conflict and its humanitarian consequences. The
ECOWAS protocol on the Mechanism for Conflict
Prevention, Management, Resolution, Peacekeeping
and Security, adopted in 1999, is a major tool for
regional prevention and management of conflicts. Its
innovations include its Mediation and Security
Council, its early warning system and the fact that it is
rooted in the consolidation and protection of
democracy and human rights.
Mali welcomes and encourages the positive
developments in the peace process in Sierra Leone that
have taken place since the second meeting of the
Committee of Six of the ECOWAS Mediation and
Security Council with the United Nations, the
Government of Sierra Leone and the Revolutionary
United Front (RUF) on 2 May 2001 in Abuja, Nigeria.
Progress, although still fragile, has been made in
the Mano River Union region. As evidence of this we
can cite the ministerial meetings among the three
countries, Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. ECOWAS
intends to continue its efforts to help make the Mano
River Union a pillar of stability and development. The
recent summit of heads of State and Government of
ECOWAS on a global and comprehensive approach to
security questions stresses once again the will of West
Africa to shoulder its responsibilities, helped by its
various partners.
The implementation of these initiatives and West
African approaches to conflict prevention and
management will require assistance from the
international community, in particular the United
Nations. In this respect, it is gratifying to note that a
genuine partnership has been established between the
United Nations and ECOWAS. We firmly encourage
the establishment of the United Nations Office for West
Africa, as recommended by the inter-institutional
mission that visited the region from 6 to 27 March
2001.
The special session of the General Assembly on
children will be an opportunity to build a progressive
and universalist vision in order to promote a “world
worthy of children”, with the participation of all,
within the framework of a world movement for
children. ECOWAS, which has prepared for that
gathering, is continuing its efforts to implement the
Accra plan of action on the situation of children in
conflict with the opening of a special office entrusted
with this question, the Optional Protocol that will soon
be adopted on the sale of children and the regional
initiative on joint vaccination days. In the near future, a
decade for the culture of children’s rights will be
examined.
The creation of the International Criminal Court
will not only make it possible to bring to trial the
perpetrators of the gravest crimes against the dignity of
the human person, but will also be an instrument of
deterrence, which can thus contribute to the
maintenance of international peace and security. In this
regard, I recall that Mali has already ratified the Rome
Statute, thus expressing its support for the struggle
against impunity and for the full respect of human
dignity. We appeal to others to help make the court a
reality as early as next year.
In the field of human security, we must provide
an appropriate response — a global and urgent
response — to the scourge of HIV/AIDS following the
special session of June 2001, while at the same time
increasing our potential to fight malaria.
Our responsibility is great indeed with regard to
the persistence of inequalities and the increase in
poverty. The peoples of the world aspire to education,
employment, health and nutritional self-sufficiency —
in other words, they hope to attain more dignified and
humane living conditions. In this context, Africa,
which intends to make its union a reality, wants to
become master of its own destiny. It needs solidarity to
help it strengthen its capacities and mobilize its own
development resources. We will work hard toward the
implementation of the Programme of Action of the
Third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, held in Brussels in May 2001. As
was stated by President Konare, that Conference, by
the very fact that it was being convened, signalled
progress
34

“... and it is also a test of the international
community following the Millennium
Declaration. There will be success only if we see
a will to move to concrete action, if we envisage
stronger and bolder measures to finance
development, to increase the effectiveness of
foreign aid and to resolve the problems that are
hampering the sustainable development of the
least developed countries.”
The International Conference on Financing for
Development, which will be held in Monterrey in
March 2002, should be an important event and an
interface for dialogue to find new means of
contributing to the financing of development and to
reaffirm the political will for concrete development
objectives. This is why Mali believes that the
Conference will have to lead to the adoption of a
concise political declaration — a declaration with
precise strategic objectives reflecting the collective
will to act to resolve the problem of financing
development and to lay the foundations for a real world
partnership.
Africa is pleased that the high-level debate of the
2001 substantive session of the Economic and Social
Council (ECOSOC), which was held in Geneva in July,
had as its theme “The role of the United Nations
system in supporting the efforts of African countries to
achieve sustainable development”, and awaits the
realization of the measures envisaged there. This role
must not be merely a declared one — it must lead to
concrete results. This is why we hope that the
Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization
(WTO), which is now under way in Doha, Qatar, will
promote new progress and decisive initiatives to make
it possible for Africa to develop its assets.
The entry into force of the African Union, whose
constituent act was signed in Lomé on 12 July 2000,
reflects the commitment of African leaders to the
integration of our continent. In fact, the establishment
of the African Union and the launching of the New
Partnership for African Development, aimed at
eliminating poverty through sustainable development,
can help support the dynamics of regional integration.
In this respect, we appeal to the international
community to assist this African initiative, which is so
promising for the future of the peoples of our
continent.
Our Organization is, more than ever before,
called to act to promote international peace and
security and to achieve development for all. Here in the
United Nations, we must act as full-fledged Member
States, shapers of our shared future. We say this in
order to recall our shared responsibility to bring about
peace in the Middle East, the Balkans and the Great
Lakes region — to mention just these cases — and to
do justice to human nature. We share responsibility to
manifest more solidarity and to provide assistance to
resolve the many humanitarian crises that exist.
In the Middle East, the situation remains of
concern because of the persistence of violence in the
occupied Palestinian territories. Mali firmly condemns
the violence that has been suffered by the Palestinian
people, and we believe that Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the principle of
land for peace and the other relevant resolutions of the
United Nations must serve as a basis for negotiations
and the establishment of a just, global and lasting
peace. We call for the resumption of these negotiations
and reaffirm our unfailing attachment to the legitimate
rights of the fraternal Palestinian people, including the
right to the establishment of an independent State.
My delegation also expresses its hope that there
will be a definitive lifting of sanctions against the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
On the Korean peninsula, the region from which
you come, my delegation hopes that the process of
reconciliation now under way will experience further
progress, in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 55/11, thanks to autonomous and
strengthened inter-Korean dialogue, and especially the
holding of a second summit in the near future. In this
spirit, my country will continue its action for the
reconciliation and peaceful reunification of the two
Koreas.
Adapting the United Nations to the demands of
our world is an urgent need. Mali remains convinced of
the vital necessity of democratizing the United Nations
and restructuring its main organs, making them more
representative and credible. A democratization of the
Security Council, whose structure no longer
corresponds to the realities of the world, will help
reflect the shared will to make that organ more
effective, representative and legitimate. Along these
lines, we reiterate the demands of Africa for an
equitable allocation of the two categories of seats, in
35

accordance with the Harare Declaration and the
decisions adopted by the heads of State and
Government of the Organization of African Unity.
In conclusion, the peoples of the United Nations
are watching us as we carry out the promises contained
in the Millennium Declaration. We must build a new
world — a world that reflects our intelligence, a world
of justice, a world that embodies the essential values of
all humanity.





"
56,2001,NZL,"﻿May I first express my
condolences to the families and friends of those who
died in this morning's air crash. This was a tragedy in a
city that has already seen more than its share of tragedy
in recent times.
We meet in New York at this session of the
General Assembly under the shadow of terrorist attacks
on this city just two months ago. We mourn the lives of
nearly 5,000 people from 79 countries who, having
done nothing to deserve that fate, died in the attack.
The scale, premeditation, coordination and indifference
to mass murder that characterize this attack represent a
new age of terrorism. It is a terrorism that appears to
set no limit to its consequences. Those responsible for
it foreshadow a willingness to use biological, chemical
and nuclear weapons of mass destruction. The
potentially catastrophic effects if they are able to carry
out that threat demand an urgent and comprehensive
response to pre-empt any such action.
We cannot allow the rule of terror to replace the
rule of law. We cannot tolerate the damage that
terrorism has already done to the global economy. We
cannot allow terror to threaten basic human rights to
life and security.
New Zealand welcomes the lead by the United
Nations in coordinating an effective and enduring
response to terrorism. Security Council resolution 1373
(2001), adopted unanimously, sets out a blueprint for
action which every Member State has an obligation to
implement. Its emphasis is on measures to close off
financial support and the provision of refuge for
terrorist groups in every country of the world.
International cooperation in imposing these measures
and bringing the terrorists to justice will, in the longer
term, lie at the heart of the campaign to defeat
terrorism.
Removing the immediate threat posed by
terrorists such as those in Al Qaeda and those who
harbour them will, however, require more than
resolutions. Time and again over the past three years,
the Security Council has called on the Taliban to
prevent the use of Afghanistan by terrorists to launch
strikes against other countries. Those resolutions and
the sanctions that accompanied them have been ignored
by the Taliban. Where groups operate beyond the rule
of law and countries put themselves outside of
international codes of behaviour, the use of force
becomes a necessary part of our response.
Multilateral action and cooperation on a wider
front are also necessary if we are to be successful in
removing the threat of terrorism on an ongoing and
lasting basis. Comprehensive action is needed to
minimize the threat of chemical, biological or nuclear
weapons falling into the hands of extremist groups. No
State should develop, test and hold weapons of this
nature. Such weapons are a threat to humanity. Their
use by States would destroy and otherwise harm
innocent human beings as certainly as did the actions
of the terrorist group that attacked New York.
Nations yet to sign and ratify the United Nations
Conventions on Chemical and Biological Weapons and
treaties to ban mines and inhumane weapons must do
so. Nations must equally commit themselves to the
elimination of nuclear weapons, the early entry into
force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
and an immediate start to negotiations on a fissile
material cut-off treaty.
The attack of 11 September should also
encourage all nations to ratify the Rome Statute to
bring into effect the International Criminal Court as a
forum for pursuing action against those responsible for
crimes against humanity.
Suppression of terrorism must also involve action
to deal with its causes. States must consider whether
the suppression of dissident or minority groups rather
than allowing legitimate channels to voice dissent
leaves resort to force as the only option.
The events of 11 September should encourage all
countries and organizations, particularly those directly
involved, to renew efforts to find a just and peaceful
solution to the Middle East crisis. To achieve a
peaceful solution between Palestinians and Israelis
requires good will and flexibility on both sides. There
can be no double standards in how the principles of
15

human rights, freedom and social and economic
opportunity are applied to all peoples.
One consequence of the campaign against
terrorism has been to bring the world's attention to the
situation in Afghanistan. Afghanistan reminds us that
where a vacuum is created by the absence of legitimate
government and the rule of law, it will be filled by
extremist elements, criminal groups dealing in drug
trafficking and terrorist organizations, all of which can
operate with impunity.
The international community has for too long
been indifferent to the situation in Afghanistan and to
the long-standing refugee crisis that has resulted from
22 years of war, from famine and from Taliban
oppression. Pakistan and Iran have carried the burden
of 3.6 million refugees, while much of the world
showed concern only when a handful of those refugees
in desperation sought to enter other countries illegally.
Too little concern has been shown internationally to the
300,000 Afghan children who have died annually from
preventable causes. One in three children in refugee
camps die before they reach the age of five. The groups
now protesting against military intervention were silent
while this human catastrophe was unfolding over the
last few years.
Any loss of innocent life in conflict is tragic, and
extraordinary measures must be taken to avoid it. But a
failure to remove the Taliban regime and a failure to
assist the Afghan people to put in place a broad-based,
moderate and stable Government to replace the Taliban
will mean the ongoing loss of hundreds of thousands of
lives and the continued suffering of the Afghan people.
Renewed efforts are needed through United
Nations agencies to provide emergency relief to people
within Afghanistan and in the refugee camps to avoid
unnecessary loss of life through the winter and in the
months to come. The United Nations must stand ready
to assist Afghanistan to rebuild itself once the conflict
is over, working with as broad a coalition of Afghan
groups as is possible to create a viable political,
economic and social infrastructure.
Resolving the problems that have forced so many
millions of people from their homes is fundamental to
solving the growing refugee crisis. In Afghanistan and
elsewhere, people flee their homelands through fear of
death or persecution, or because of poverty and lack of
opportunity.
In a world made smaller by advances in
communication and transport, no State can ignore the
plight in other countries or expect not to face
consequences from unacceptable discrepancies in
wealth, opportunity and human rights standards.
Suppression of criminal organizations responsible
for people trafficking is a challenge which demands
increased international cooperation. Those who profit
from people's desperation and who, once paid, are
careless as to whether or not their human cargo
survives must be stamped out. However, removing the
causes of people fleeing from their countries remains
fundamental.
New Zealand's own region of the Pacific has not
been immune from violence and instability. In recent
years, we have seen conflict in East Timor, violence
between Government and separatist movements within
Indonesia and in Bougainville, ethnic conflict in the
Solomon Islands and a coup that overthrew a legitimate
Government in Fiji.
Problems remain in the region, but there have
been notable areas of improvement. A peace settlement
has been signed in Bougainville. Fiji has held
democratic elections. Indonesia is seeking to resolve
separatist conflict by offering greater autonomy. In
East Timor, there have been free elections, and that
country will gain independence as the first new nation
of the twenty-first century in May 2002. International
cooperation and a capable transitional administration
by the United Nations have achieved a remarkable
transformation in a poor and devastated country. I
congratulate the Security Council on its endorsement of
the Secretary-General's concept for a post-
independence United Nations presence in East Timor to
consolidate what has been achieved.
In acknowledging the role of United Nations
personnel, I would also stress the need to ensure their
proper protection in situations which are often
dangerous. The murder of United Nations relief
workers in Atambua, West Timor, and the failure to
bring to account those fully responsible are a reminder
that more must be done to protect our United Nations
personnel. We endorse the Secretary-General's
recommendations on extending the legal protection for
United Nations and other personnel involved in
humanitarian operations.
It is timely at this General Assembly to stress the
importance of the role of the United Nations. The
16

critical wars of the twenty-first century will not be won
by single nations, however powerful, or even by
coalitions. It is the United Nations acting collectively
which will win the wars against terrorism, poverty and
disease; threats to the environment; and the threats
posed by conflict and weapons of mass destruction.
The commitments made by heads of State and
Government in the United Nations Millennium
Declaration last year take on even greater relevance
following the events of 11 September.
However, for the United Nations to achieve its
potential, it must undergo reform. To prevent the
General Assembly and the Secretariat from becoming
overwhelmed by so many tasks that they fail to be
effective in tackling any of them, we need to prioritize
our agenda and to be more selective.
The Security Council needs reform. Its
membership should be expanded to reflect
contemporary realities, but without maintaining or
extending the veto. Countries contributing to
peacekeeping operations should be afforded greater
involvement in the Council's decision-making with
respect to those operations. Peacekeeping operations
must be sufficiently resourced.
The capacity of the United Nations for rapid
reaction must be strengthened. New Zealand is ready to
enter into discussions on a memorandum of
understanding with the United Nations on its
participation in the standby arrangements system. This
is consistent with New Zealand's long-standing
readiness to contribute to peacekeeping operations and
its current involvement in more than 12 such
operations, including its commitment since 1999 of a
battalion to help ensure the success of the United
Nations operation in East Timor.
The United Nations was founded after the Second
World War to build a world free from poverty, violence
and the violation of human rights. Nations committed
themselves to a collective response to problems that
could not be solved by countries individually.
Countries agreed on rules of international behaviour.
No one would claim that the United Nations has
an unblemished record of success. But without it, the
world would be a much less secure place, much less
able to confront the difficulties which we face. Let this
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly reaffirm
our commitment to work collectively to defeat
terrorism, conflict, poverty and disease, and set the
agenda for peace, development and respect for human
rights for all.







"
56,2001,LTU,"﻿Let me at the outset
express our deepest condolences to the families of the
victims of Monday’s tragic accident in Queens, New
York.
I am particularly pleased to see Mr. Han Seung-
soo guiding the General Assembly during this session.
I wish to assure him of my delegation’s fullest support
in all his endeavours. I would like also to extend my
32

congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan on his election to a
second term of office as Secretary-General.
It is also with great satisfaction that we join other
speakers in congratulating Mr. Kofi Annan on having
been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. We are proud that
the one hundredth Nobel Prize also honoured the
United Nations as a whole. As rightly pointed out by
the Secretary-General, this “challenges us to do more
and to do better”. It is our responsibility to ensure that
the Organization is at the forefront of efforts to achieve
peace and security in the world.
This year Lithuania is celebrating the tenth
anniversary of its membership in the United Nations.
On 17 September 1991, our nation proudly watched as
the Lithuanian flag was raised for the first time at the
United Nations.
In the 10 years that have elapsed, we have seen a
rapid transformation in the world order. The world
around us has shrunk with incredible speed. The
benefits accruing from globalization have made us
more dependent upon each other and thus more
vulnerable to complex phenomena that affect the
stability and security of our societies.
Terrorism does not recognize national borders. It
spills over into international terrain, no matter how
ingenious the defences are that have been put in place.
Only through the common efforts of the international
community will it be possible to create successful
defence mechanisms. Indeed, on 11 September, the
world grasped the sheer magnitude of the defences that
will be required.
Terrorism is closely linked to extreme poverty,
marginalization, human rights violations, ethnic strife,
the proliferation of arms and drug trafficking. Thus, it
is essential in the long term to devise and carry out an
anti-terrorism policy that is inclusive and spans all
regions and continents.
I wish to express once again from this rostrum my
nation’s strong condemnation of terrorist actions and to
reaffirm our solidarity with the people of the United
States. We are determined to stand alongside the
international community in combating terrorism. In the
immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks, Lithuania
supported the actions taken by the European Union and
the North Atlantic Alliance, including the decision of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to
invoke article 5 of the Washington Treaty. My
Government has decided to grant permanent diplomatic
clearance for the overflight and landing of United
States Government aircraft.
An important step aimed at combating and
preventing terrorism was the adoption of an
unprecedented Security Council resolution: resolution
1373 (2001). Now it is up to Governments to act
without delay in following through the detailed
requirements of the resolution.
The General Assembly should also make its own
contribution, first of all, by speeding up its work on the
draft comprehensive convention on international
terrorism.
Domestic legal steps to be taken by Member
States include ratification of the 12 United Nations
multilateral instruments directly designed for the
suppression of terrorism. Lithuania has already stepped
up its efforts to accede to the remaining five
Conventions.
In this endeavour, the experience and practice of
other international bodies in the fight against terrorism
should not be forgotten. For instance, the Council of
Europe has successfully elaborated a number of
treaties, such as the European Convention on the
Suppression of Terrorism, the European Convention on
Extradition and its Protocols, and so on. The
experience of this regional organization could also be
used in the field of crime prevention, money-
laundering and corruption. It is noteworthy that
instruments of the European treaty system are also
open to non-member States.
Just last week — meeting in Warsaw at a
conference of heads of State of Central and Eastern
Europe on the common fight against terrorism — 17
leaders from the region, including from my own
country, adopted a declaration on cooperation in the
combat against terrorism and a plan of action against
terrorism. It is aimed at improving cooperation among
intelligence, customs and police services and cracking
down on money-laundering and drug trafficking.
The challenges posed by a globalized world are
multifarious and interrelated. They require diverse and
versatile actions. Therefore, due consideration and
resources should be devoted to the problems of arms
control and disarmament, as well as to poverty
eradication and sustainable development.
33

In this regard, I would like to note the resolution
adopted just a few weeks ago by the First Committee
on multilateral cooperation in the area of disarmament
and non-proliferation and on global efforts against
terrorism. It puts a clear focus on multilateral efforts to
combat international terrorism and fight proliferation.
The results of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty (CTBT) article XIV Conference have
rekindled the hope that widespread concerns about the
delayed entry into force of the Treaty will be taken into
account. We also hope that the implementation of the
13 steps agreed upon at the 2000 Review Conference
of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) will not be put on hold. Likewise,
intensive bilateral consultations between the United
States and the Russian Federation on a new strategic
framework will, it is hoped, foster a common
understanding and provide a basis for deep reductions
in all classes of nuclear weapons, consistent with the
commitments under article VI of the NPT.
Strengthening the Biological and Toxin Weapons
Convention also remains an urgent priority.
The 2001 Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small
Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects has yielded
a Programme of Action, a strategy and the political
momentum to deal with the proliferation and misuse of
small arms. There needs to be a follow-up process to
tackle their brokering, marking and transportation and
to build upon the measures agreed thus far. In the
meantime, we believe that the strict implementation of
the Programme of Action will bring about a real
change at the end of the day.
History has proved that democratic, prosperous
States provide the most favourable environment for
human activities. The United Nations should therefore
continue its efforts to promote democratization and
sustainable development. I would also like to
underscore the need to pay even greater attention to the
promotion and protection of human rights.
Today we face the challenges of a globalized
world, which are the result of rapidly developing
technologies and human negligence. These challenges,
although not as evident as open military conflicts, are
no less threatening. A devastated and deteriorating
environment could cause conflicts of an unprecedented
scale.
No effort should be spared to free people from the
dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty.
Assistance, new trade arrangements and debt relief
should be complemented by firm commitments to
poverty reduction, economic equality and measures to
support education; they should be reflected first and
foremost in the national policies of individual States
and, at the same time, on the agendas of international
organizations. In this regard, we commit ourselves to
ensuring successful preparation for the International
Conference on Financing for Development and the
World Summit on Sustainable Development.
The Summit, in Johannesburg, should make
concrete contributions to the eradication of poverty and
the promotion of sustainable modes of production and
consumption. In this regard, the Government of
Lithuania, in its domestic policy, aims at economic
development that does not harm the overall quality of
the environment. Priority is given to promoting
investment aimed at the prevention of pollution,  the
use of clean fuel and energy sources and the
introduction of low-waste and other progressive
environmental technologies.
The International Conference on Financing for
Development should focus on better mobilization and
more effective use of financial resources and find ways
for more efficient cooperation between all development
actors. The meeting will set strategic goals of policy
coherence in order to integrate into the world economy
countries with differing levels of economic
development. The Bretton Woods institutions and the
private sector should play important roles in the
development process.
The events of 11 September have proved how
fragile international security can be. Moreover, in
defence of our common values — freedom, democracy
and openness — no nation can idly stand by or act
unilaterally. Every nation must pull its own weight in
contributing to regional and international stability.
Strengthening dialogue and understanding among
nations and civilizations should also remain in the
forefront of our thinking. Better understanding and
identified common values will foster trust and
tolerance among people, preventing the spread of
fanaticism, violence and terrorism. Lithuania made its
contribution to these goals by hosting the International
Conference on Dialogue among Civilizations in April
this year.
It is of crucial importance to Lithuania to
participate actively in international organizations and
34

to contribute to peacekeeping efforts. We have
continued to provide our civilian police officers to
United Nations peacekeeping operations through the
United Nations Standby Arrangements System. Our
troops have been serving in the Balkans since the very
beginning of the international engagement in that
region. Just a few days ago, a Lithuanian medical
squad, a small, but much-needed contribution to the
United Nations, was placed under the Standby
Arrangements System. Shortly, Lithuania will submit
its application for full-fledged membership in the
United Nations Standby Forces High-Readiness
Brigade.
Membership in the European Union and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization will solidify our region’s
institutional, economic and security ties. Lithuania is
sparing no effort in preparing for the challenges of a
unified pan-Atlantic family of democracies. The work
of the Vilnius 10 group, initiated a few years ago and
launched in Vilnius, is proof of the ability of the
region’s States to promote transparency, partnership
and common values.
At the subregional level, Lithuania stresses
practical cooperative efforts to promote democratic and
economic transformation throughout the region. Over
the last decade, our engagement with Poland has
become a close partnership. Dynamic trilateral Baltic
cooperation has become part of broader Baltic-Nordic
cooperation. Excellent cross-border cooperation with
the Kaliningrad region has given rise to many dynamic
developments.
Just a couple of days ago, on 8 November,
Lithuania assumed the chairmanship of the Committee
of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Council of
Europe, based on the common values of pluralist
democracy, human rights and the rule of law, already
has a history of cooperation with the United Nations
and its agencies, most notably in the field of human
rights. Recent joint efforts by the United Nations, the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
and the Council of Europe to facilitate recovery of
South-Eastern Europe have proved to be of the utmost
significance for the people of the region, and have
opened a new chapter of cooperation between these
organizations.
During its chairmanship, Lithuania will seek to
stimulate dialogue between the Council of Europe and
the United Nations and its specialized agencies. We
encourage a regular exchange of views on issues
related to the fight against and prevention of terrorism,
organized crime and money-laundering. Intensive
coordination with regard to setting standards for
pluralist democracy and respect for human rights will
also be promoted.
In the work of the Council of Europe, the
Lithuanian chairmanship will focus mainly on fighting
terrorism, supporting the enlargement process of the
Council of Europe, promoting regional cooperation and
ensuring the effective functioning of the organization.
With the aim of building a modern pan-European
society, we will keep working to establish a wider
European identity, sharing the best practices of the
Council of Europe with other organizations and States,
and strengthening the impact of the Council of Europe.







"
56,2001,JPN,"﻿I would like to
congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo, Minister for Foreign
Affairs and Trade of the Republic of Korea, on his
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly
at its fifty-sixth session, and to pay high tribute to him
for the efficient manner in which he has been guiding
this session under unprecedented circumstances. Japan
is determined to continue to extend its full support to
the President.
I would also like on this occasion to extend my
sincere congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, and to the United Nations on being named
the recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize this year. I
believe it is indeed a reflection of the international
community's appreciation for the efforts of the United
Nations, under the leadership of Secretary-General
Annan, for world peace and prosperity. The challenges
facing the international community, however, are
becoming increasingly diverse and difficult, and Japan
will cooperate fully with the activities of the United
Nations in responding to these situations.
I deeply mourn the deaths of the victims of the
series of heinous terrorist attacks against the United
States on 11 September, who have left behind loving
families and friends in the United States and in many
other countries. I extend my sincere condolences to the
bereaved families and to all the people and the
Government of the United States.
It is no exaggeration to say that the terrorist
attacks are threats against all humankind and are
challenges to democracy and freedom throughout the
world. The international community must establish a
world-wide circle of cooperation for the elimination of
terrorism. In this context, I am encouraged that, in
response to the recent attacks, the international
community is taking prompt actions at the United
Nations and in many other international and regional
organizations and forums to prevent and eliminate
terrorism. Considering the response to terrorism to be
its own responsibility, Japan is determined to make the
utmost efforts to prevent and eliminate such acts.
Japan has made it clear that the terrorist attacks
on the United States must not be linked to Islamic
doctrine. It is extremely important that the international
community, transcending religious and ethnic
differences, take unified actions to eliminate terrorism.
There are many things which the United Nations
has to do in order to eliminate terrorism. It is
imperative that we faithfully and immediately
implement Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001)
and 1373 (2001). Japan is actively contributing to the
work of the Security Council in implementing
resolution 1373 (2001). It is also important that all
Member States accede to and fully observe the 12
international conventions relating to terrorism and
accelerate the work toward the adoption of a
comprehensive convention on international terrorism
and an international convention for the suppression of
acts of nuclear terrorism.
Moreover, certain biological weapons, such as
anthrax, can be produced with more limited funds and
less advanced technologies than nuclear and chemical
weapons. It is important to strengthen the Biological
14

Weapons Convention in order to effectively prevent the
production of such weapons.
Japan is itself making various efforts to eliminate
terrorism. First, with regard to treaties, there are two
treaties concerning terrorism which Japan has either
not yet signed or not yet ratified. The International
Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings
has recently been approved by the Diet, and Japan will
immediately begin the ratification process. Japan
signed the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism on 30
October and would like to ratify it as soon as possible.
In addition, Japan is ready to cooperate with
developing countries in the fields of controlling the
financing of terrorism, immigration control, aviation
and maritime safety, measures against terrorism
through biological and chemical weapons, and so forth.
Moreover, Japan will take more active measures
against terrorism by enacting a new law to support the
operations of other countries that are trying to
eliminate the threat posed by the recent terrorist attacks
and to extend assistance to affected people.
In view of the importance of ensuring the stability
of Afghanistan’s neighbours, Japan is extending
emergency economic assistance, which includes
assistance to Afghan refugees, Pakistan and other
neighbouring countries. Japan also decided to provide
up to $120 million for Afghan refugee assistance
efforts undertaken by United Nations agencies and
other humanitarian organizations.
With winter approaching, there is an urgent
humanitarian need for the international community to
deliver food and other vital goods to the people in
Afghanistan. I would like to take this opportunity to
call upon the international community to join forces in
support of the humanitarian activities of United
Nations organizations.
As we look ahead to the future, the achievement
of peace and stability in Afghanistan is extremely
important not only to eliminate a hotbed of global
terrorism but also to lay the foundation for the long-
term stability and development of the country and the
neighbouring region. Based on this recognition, it is
necessary for the international community to tackle this
issue from a long-term and broad perspective.
Towards that end, it goes without saying that,
first of all, a Government must be established that has
the broad support of the Afghan people, represents
every ethnic group, adheres to international law and
establishes friendly relations with the international
community, including with neighbouring countries.
However, the realities in Afghanistan do not offer a
clear perspective and thus entail many unpredictable
elements. Japan fully supports the activities of
Secretary-General Annan and his Special
Representative for Afghanistan, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi,
to promote political stability in Afghanistan and will
actively cooperate with them.
Japan intends to play an active role both in the
peace process and in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
We have been calling for holding a conference for
peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan since 1996,
and I would like on this occasion to reaffirm that Japan
is ready to hold such a conference to contribute to that
country’s peace and reconstruction at as early a time as
possible, in cooperation with relevant countries and
organizations.
The United Nations has serious responsibilities
for addressing relating to terrorism. Japan will spare no
effort in order that this session of the General
Assembly can be as fruitful as possible for this
purpose.



"
56,2001,VUT,"﻿At the outset, I wish to
extend to Mr. Han Seung-soo greetings from the
Government and the people of the Republic of
Vanuatu. I wish to convey to him the apologies of my
Government for not being able to be represented here
at the ministerial level owing to the fact that our
Parliament is currently in session. I should also like to
take this opportunity to convey my Government’s
congratulations to him on his election as President of
the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I also
pay tribute to his predecessor, who so ably played a
decisive role at the helm of the fifty-fifth session.
In addition, allow me to congratulate the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his election to a
second term at the head of this esteemed world body.
His assured wisdom and compassion are needed now
more than ever to lead this Organization.
I have the great honour, in standing before the
Assembly today, to deliver a statement on behalf of my
Government and the people of the Republic of Vanuatu
at a time so sad that words cannot begin to convey the
scope of our emotions. Let me express the sincere
sympathy and condolences of my Government and the
people of Vanuatu to the families and friends of the
victims of the tragedy that struck downtown New York,
Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania. In light of these
events, since the 11 September attacks, the General
Assembly has been forced to suspend most of its
35

agenda, including this general debate among heads of
State and Government.
It is ironic that as the world becomes more
civilized, we become more vulnerable to such inhuman
acts of terrorism. The impacts of these terrorist
activities are being felt around the globe, and small
States such as mine will suffer along with the rest of
the international community. If any good has come out
of the despicable events of 11 September, it is that
nations the world over are more united than ever in
condemning and collaborating to eradicate these
terrible acts of terrorism. My Government has taken
steps to tighten security and is working closely with
other Pacific island States towards building and
strengthening peace and security in our region.
Global peace and security cannot be certain in
this climate of continued difference of views between
major nuclear-weapon States. The lack of progress on
this is reflected by the stalemate prevailing in the
Conference on Disarmament. The agreements reached
during the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons were not realized; the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has not entered into force; and
global military expenditures continue to rise. More
committed efforts and innovative strategies are needed
to meet the goals of the Millennium Declaration.
Vanuatu believes that the Conference on Disarmament
should work towards that end.
The Third United Nations Conference on the
Least Developed Countries, held in Brussels in May
this year, was highly successful and produced the
Brussels Declaration and the Programme of Action for
Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010.
We appreciate the view of the Secretary-General that
the Declaration reaffirms the collective responsibility
of the international community to uphold the principles
of human dignity, equality and equity and to ensure
that globalization becomes a positive force for all the
world’s people. We believe that without the
coordinated involvement of the whole United Nations
system, there will be little the United Nations can
achieve.
The Government of Vanuatu, like other
Governments around the world, is committed to
enhancing the status of women. It is well documented
that women in Vanuatu are disadvantaged in almost all
sectors. In 1995, Vanuatu unanimously ratified the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women. Accordingly, the
Government of Vanuatu is focusing on the Convention
as the basis for programmes on women’s rights and
development in Vanuatu.
A lack of resources has hindered Vanuatu’s
progress in submitting its first two reports. The
Government, however, recognizes the importance of
the reports in terms of building up and monitoring its
own human resources development requirements and is
thus putting greater effort into the production of these
reports. Indeed, no country can afford to waste half of
its human resources.
Vanuatu remains steadfast in its commitments and
obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the
Child. Since ratifying the Convention in 1992, the
Government of Vanuatu has implemented decisions and
undertaken activities that promote the advancement of
children in our society. A National Children’s
Committee, whose membership is made up of
stakeholders, has been revived and is officially
recognized as the regulatory body for coordinating and
supervising children’s rights throughout the nation.
The electoral assistance provided by the United
Nations for Fiji’s national election has greatly
facilitated the democratic transition in that country. We
welcome the new focus on supporting institutions and
stimulating local participation. We also welcome other
efforts to deploy the Electoral Assistance Division to
coordinate the activities of foreign observers in
forthcoming elections, particularly in East Timor and
hopefully in Solomon Islands. We commend the United
Nations for its assistance in empowering the citizens of
Member States to enjoy the power of democracy.
We recognize the efforts of the United Nations in
bridging the gap between human rights norms and their
implementation. Despite some progress, challenges
remain in ensuring universal respect for human rights.
The Republic of Vanuatu is a party to nearly all core
human rights treaties. We feel there is a continuing
need for human and institutional capacity-building in
developing countries in order to ensure the
implementation of human rights conventions and
treaties they have signed. This is an area where the
United Nations should follow a needs-based approach
and make a realistic assessment of the existing
mechanisms.
36

The East Timorese people, who have already
elected their Constituent Assembly, will democratically
elect their President and soon exercise full sovereignty
over their entire territory; this positive development is
a big leap. It affirms the outstanding commitment of
the Committee of 24 in deliberating on the right of
peoples to self-determination. However, there are those
who are still waiting to exercise this right. At this
session’s general debate, I am pleased to note that the
report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization gives special mention to West Papua. The
Secretary-General intends to enhance our efforts to
assist Indonesia in seeking to establish a democratic
society and in addressing the wide range of complex
issues facing that country. The Secretary-General also
underlined the efforts of the Indonesian authorities to
further the promotion of human rights and find
peaceful resolutions to the problems in West Papua,
Aceh and Maluku. During the thirty-second Pacific
Islands Forum in Nauru, Forum leaders expressed
continuing concern about violence and loss of life in
the Indonesian province of West Papua. The Forum
also called on the Indonesian authorities to ensure to
that the voices of all parties in West Papua be heard in
order to achieve a peaceful resolution. Our leaders
welcomed the recent presentation of special autonomy
proposals to Indonesia’s national assembly, while
urging all parties to protect and uphold the human
rights of all residents in West Papua.
I am extremely pleased to inform the Assembly
that the Government of Vanuatu has agreed to host the
Special Committee of 24 on decolonization seminar in
Port Vila, Vanuatu, in May of next year. We look
forward to that important meeting.
The Republic of Vanuatu wishes to join others in
expressing our appreciation to the Secretary-General
for his comprehensive report on the implementation of
the recommendations of the Special Committee on
Peacekeeping Operations and of the Panel on United
Nations Peace Operations. Vanuatu is a new supporter
of the United Nations peacekeeping role in East Timor
and Bosnia and has contributed civilian police to these
United Nations peacekeeping initiatives. The Vanuatu
Government remains committed to future peacekeeping
engagements. Vanuatu has also monitored the
Bougainville peace process alongside the United
Nations.
One of the more pressing issues before us is that
of climate change and sea-level rise. The United
Nations has now scheduled a World Summit on
Sustainable Development, to be held in Johannesburg,
South Africa, in September of next year.
The Pacific Islands Forum communiqué reflected
on climate change in seeking the international
community’s awareness of our low-lying islands in the
Pacific and reiterating the priority of the Kyoto
Protocol as a significant step forward for global action
in combating climate change. Although signed by
many of the industrialized countries, including the
United States, the Kyoto Protocol has not yet been
ratified by many of them. We are very concerned that
the United States Senate has actually voted against
ratification.
Our Forum leaders noted the concerns expressed
by most members over the United States intention not
to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. We urge the United States
to reconsider its position and to ratify the Kyoto
Protocol as soon as possible.
While the incidence of HIV/AIDS is not as high
in the Pacific as in some other regions, it is
nevertheless a major issue for both developing and
developed countries within our region. Vanuatu’s
delegation is of the firm view that prevention should be
the mainstay of combating HIV/AIDS in our region.
The relatively low number of reported HIV/AIDS
cases in a number of our countries should not give rise
to complacency. Once the disease takes hold, care and
treatment can be extremely expensive. In this respect,
Vanuatu welcomes the establishment of a Global Fund
to combat HIV/AIDS, and we wish to express our
appreciation to those Governments, foundations and
private companies that have already expressed support.
Meanwhile, strategies and plans for resource
mobilization must keep in mind the competing
priorities of, and the constraints faced by, smaller
States like Vanuatu.
In conclusion, the Vanuatu delegation reaffirms
its support and conviction for the crucial role that the
United Nations has in ensuring that the world becomes
a much safer place in which to live.


"
56,2001,BLZ,"﻿We understand that an
American Airlines flight to the Dominican Republic
has gone down in Queens. We extend the condolences
and the support of my Government to the United States
and the Dominican Republic.
That we have forged ahead with the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly and that political
leaders have assembled for the general debate mark an
extraordinary accomplishment, one that brings great
credibility to the United Nations. I applaud and thank
all who reside in this great city for continuing their
work. Today, more than ever, our efforts and energies
should focus on implementing the purposes and
principles of our Charter and should inspire hope and
confidence in all humanity.
Foreign Minister Han Seung-soo, on behalf of my
delegation, I extend congratulations to him on his
election as President of the fifty-sixth session of the
Assembly. The manner in which he has guided our
work thus far is outstanding and worthy of our
recognition. We wish him continued success as he
presides over this Assembly. To the Secretary-General
and to the United Nations, we extend congratulations
on being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
Before I proceed, please allow me, on behalf of
the Belizean people, to extend to the President and the
people of the United States of America, especially to
the people of New York City, our heartfelt condolences
on the tremendous loss suffered on 11 September.
For most of us, the immediate reaction to this
tragedy was one of shock and disbelief. As we joined
in mourning the loss of innocent lives, including some
of our own nationals, the international community
moved swiftly to adopt a number of resolutions here at
the United Nations. Through these actions we
forcefully condemned acts of terrorism and reached out
to the United States of America in solidarity, firm in
our support to uphold the principles of justice and the
maintenance of peace.
Today, despots feast in the raging rivers of
desperation, seeking refuge among the weak, preying
upon the vulnerabilities of the less fortunate. Those
who are caught in the sweeping currents of poverty,
forced to live in a world were a dollar is a luxury, find
little hope for a better future and are often abused by
those who manipulate them for selfish and destructive
reasons. For us, securing a better future for the millions
15

who live in poverty continues to be our most noble of
challenges.
To meet this challenge, the United Nations must
remain true to its task as set forth in the Charter and
reaffirmed just over a year ago when our heads of State
and Government gathered here and adopted the
Millennium Declaration. That Declaration outlines
various issues critical to the realization of a world with
less poverty, death and despair, exhorting the values of
freedom, equality, justice and tolerance. We must not
allow the events of 11 September to cause us to lose
our focus on this righteous undertaking — we must
stay the course.
For Belize, the path to fulfilling the goals of the
Millennium Declaration begins with addressing the
issues of development and poverty eradication. We
confirm our support for the Agenda for Development.
As a small State working to provide greater
opportunities for its people, especially those who live
in poverty, meaningful sustainable development is
critical and can be achieved only through partnership
with the international community. Regional and global
cooperation are fundamental components for progress
and necessitate a universal acceptance of our shared
responsibility to create opportunities for growth and
development. Please allow me to say a few words in
Spanish.
(spoke in Spanish)
Globalization amply demonstrates our
interdependence and the importance of cooperation
with the rest of the world based on the principle of
mutual respect. Genuine sustainable development
requires inclusive and transparent trading practices that
allow for the participation of developing countries in
the global economy. The geographical location of
Belize enables us to participate in the Caribbean
Community and the Central American Integration
System, which gives us the opportunity to offer
different perspectives in the fight against poverty. At
the same time, it increases our possibilities for greater
participation in all entities concerned with developing
innovative mechanisms to efficiently integrate our
economies into the global economic system. In this
respect, we consider that equitable and participatory
cooperation in which our concerns and vulnerabilities
will receive the attention they deserve is fundamental.
(spoke in English)
The twenty-sixth special session of the General
Assembly on HIV/AIDS, held last June, brought the
international community together to collectively affirm
the urgent need for critical action on the part of all
stakeholders to combat this pandemic. For us in the
Caribbean, the Conference was of special importance.
Ranked the second highest region in rate of HIV/AIDS
infection after sub-Saharan Africa, Caribbean States
are working with their international partners to combat
the spread of this deadly disease. Any progress made
during the HIV/AIDS special session must be
attributed to the collaborative spirit displayed by all
those involved, at both the political and technical
levels. The inclusion of civil society, as well as the
private sector, contributed to the effectiveness of the
conference and remains critical to the success of any
programme to eradicate HIV/AIDS. We welcome the
decision of the Secretary-General to reach out to the
entire world community to assist in the establishment
of the Global HIV/AIDS and Health Fund, in an effort
to help alleviate the suffering of the millions of people
afflicted by the scourge.
The protection and preservation of our
environment is a major concern to the developing
world, as so many of us depend on our natural
resources for our survival. The commitments made by
the international community for the protection of the
environment have not been implemented, and if they
are not addressed urgently, the consequences will
impact negatively our small dependent economies, as
well as the economy of the global community. We
attach great importance to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change and
welcome the successful results of the recently
concluded meeting in Marrakech, hoping to see more
States ratify the Kyoto Protocol.
In the Central America and the Caribbean regions
we perpetually suffer from the effects of natural
disasters, with the number and intensity of hurricanes
increasing over the last decade. This has been
attributed to the effects of climate change caused by
global warming. For two consecutive years, Belize has
been struck by category-four hurricanes, magnifying
the need to protect our environment and minimize our
vulnerabilities. It is imperative that we gear our efforts
towards creating the necessary mechanisms to reverse
and curtail negative actions that contribute to the
deterioration of the state of our environment. For this
16

reason, Belize, along with its partners in the Caribbean
region, continues to seek the support of the United
Nations for a special regime for the Caribbean Sea.
If we are to speak of shared responsibility for
development and the maintenance of peace and
security, this year especially we must ensure that
everyone be allowed to participate in this global forum.
In this light, we continue to appeal to this Organization
to consider the right of the 23 million people of the
Republic of China on Taiwan and allow their voices to
be heard in this world institution. Equally, we must
continue to advocate recognition of the Palestinian
people’s right to self-determination, including the right
to their independent State.
With respect to our commitment to the
development of peace and security, Belize is pleased to
report the continuation of dialogue with our neighbour,
the Republic of Guatemala. We continue to support all
efforts to peacefully resolve our differences.
This year has been designated the United Nations
Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. The recently
concluded debate on this agenda item produced
meaningful discussion on the advantages of diversity
and its benefits to human progress. Enhanced by
globalization, our actions impact others immediately,
creating new realities that require more openness and
greater sensitivity to the differences among us. In our
country, where seven languages or dialects are spoken
and diverse ethnic populations live together peacefully,
my delegation welcomes the prospect of increased
dialogue among civilizations, one inclusive of all
peoples, that will improve upon the understanding of
who we are and where we came from. The Secretary-
General, in his report on the United Nations Year of
Dialogue among Civilizations, noted the importance of
ensuring that the process of globalization be
comprehensive and fair. Let us grasp the opportunity
given to us through this process to work together as
equal partners in this global community, seeking to
understand our common objectives while respecting
our differences.
The Millennium Declaration recognizes the
existing inequalities in our world. Likewise, it offers a
comprehensive formula for greater prosperity for all. It
directs us towards a collective responsibility through
greater partnership among the countries of the world.
At this time, when we are faced with new global
realities, let us make this Declaration meaningful by
accelerating our efforts to achieve the just objectives of
lasting peace and prosperity for all of our peoples.






"
56,2001,URY,"﻿I
want first of all to stress that, under the current
circumstances, our presence — everybody’s
presence — at this general debate unquestionably takes
on special significance.
Every year, the United Nations prepares and
submits to Member States for their consideration a
comprehensive agenda containing many items of varied
scope and nature. This session is no exception: the
United Nations will not stop.
Yet, many things now appear completely
different. The city of New York, the United States and
every country, and the people of the United States and
every people — all of humankind — have been cruelly
attacked by terrorism, and its threat hangs over every
one of us and over natural and peaceful relations
among the peoples of the world. In short, this is a
global phenomenon that demands of us a global answer
and that has marked the start of the new millennium.
The nations of my continent believe that to be so. The
statements made by the Presidents of Brazil and of
Mexico, which I endorse, made that perfectly clear.
The Millennium Summit, which brought us
together here last year, provided an opportunity for us
to identify the issues that affect us all and that we must
face as part of a challenge that no one can avoid. It
19

defined an agenda of peace and hope for a world
affected by common problems, although, it must be
said, in different ways.
Today, we face a new scenario. Perhaps as never
before, all of us, and hence the United Nations, have a
common goal: to respond to terrorism, irrespective of
boundaries, ideologies, religions, races and cultures.
That commitment, undertaken with responsibility,
involves taking every possible action without ever
forgetting the higher goal: peace, whose supreme
guarantee must continue to be international law and the
conventions and treaties to which we are parties.
But there is no doubt that such a commitment is
not enough. We must fight every form of terrorism at
every level, domestic and international, and on every
front — legal, military, security and intelligence,
administrative and management. This demands of us
strong conviction, confidence in our shared values,
faith in humankind and the affirmation of life as the
highest value.
Terrorism is blind and wicked by definition.
Blind because it does not conceive or communicate
goals shared by the rest and so plunges into
irrationality. Wicked because it indiscriminately
destroys people and property and sows fear, anxiety
and sometimes panic.
Nevertheless, to fight it it will also be necessary
to move against other enemies of peace, such as
poverty and underdevelopment, to give every person
good reason to live and to make all of us guardians of
humankind, which is a common good from which no
one must feel excluded, and for which we must fight
unwaveringly.
There is no cause or banner that could justify this
violence. That is precisely why we must prevent
marginalization, helplessness and desperation from
taking root in people’s souls so that they look
approvingly and complacently on the criminal actions
of which we are victims.
Our task, then, is to galvanize everyone’s spirit in
the struggle against terrorism, because terrorism not
only fails to help solve the problems afflicting society
as a whole but also fills it with fear and plunges it into
paralysis and confusion.
We move with ever greater determination towards
a world and, consequently, towards a society that is
evidently more and more globalized. The events of 11
September demonstrate that very clearly. Every people
and every Government has been affected by those
events.
We are all involved in what happens, in a more
profound way than ever, because what happened not
only affects the security of the people; it raises
questions that are much simpler, but the answers to
which are complex: what are all of our lives going to
be like from now on? What is the life of my family
going to be like? Of my children? Of my parents? And
of the others, my neighbours, my friends? How will the
simple acts of my life change? Will I be able to travel,
receive letters, use transportation and cross bridges —
without second thoughts, as was natural to us before?
This world and, in particular, the United Nations
face a challenge for which they are not duly prepared.
We have created the technological and communication
means to unify the planet and globalize it. But we
neither know how nor have the proper instruments to
properly manage this process.
We are living through an amazing revolution, and
it must be guided — driving it forward if it stalls,
limiting it if it goes too far — in order to achieve the
goals enabling the structuring of a new, balanced
international system that takes into account the changes
that have occurred for humankind over the last 50
years.
The United Nations was born as a response to a
world that today no longer exists. The instruments and
institutions it created in the past were a response to
past realities — replaced today by new realities — in
the political, demographic, cultural, religious and
ecological spheres.
All the many countries that make up this global
society and that, together, navigate through space, have
the obligation of confronting this new reality, drawing
on our diversity.
Uruguay, a small country, but one with a long
international tradition — it was a participant in the
1907 Hague Conference to implement arbitration as the
method for resolving conflicts, a member of the League
of Nations and a founding Member of the United
Nations in San Francisco — feels that this is our
current situation, and we are ready to shoulder our due
share of responsibility.
In the past, we created international financial and
monetary institutions, and others for international
20

trade, such as the World Trade Organization, which is
meeting today in Doha. All these institutions govern
our activities and determine what we must do. But they
never act in concert. While the world is global, their
decisions are sectoral or singular.
While loans are granted to us or fiscal or
monetary adjustments are required of us, the doors to
markets do not at the same time open to our products
and our labour. This way, instead of participating in the
process of globalization, we are closed in nearly sealed
compartments. Those who have attained a certain level
of growth grow even more, while the rest, save a few
exceptions, suffer losses and fall further away from the
levels that would make it possible to enjoy the
necessary prosperity.
Today the planet has 6 billion inhabitants. Only
1.1 billion of them live in developed areas. In 2050, not
long from now — my grandchildren will not yet have
reached my age — the planet will have 9.3 billion
inhabitants, but still only 1.1 billion will live in
developed areas.
Poverty not only destroys democracy. What is
worse, it destroys societies and paves the way for
violence and, as we have often seen, even in our midst,
all forms of terrorism.
Finally, we consider it appropriate to repeat that
we are far from holding the answer necessary for the
world we have created.
We might not have spoken aloud these thoughts
that assuredly many of us have always had, had it not
been for the thousands of innocent women and men
that died on that ill-fated 11 September. We owe to
them — whom Americans will always remember with
love and grief, feelings we also share — our most
important responsibility: to see to it that they did not
die in vain.
Their tragic fate has shown us our duty. Now it is
time to do it.




"
56,2001,MLT,"﻿Allow me to begin by
expressing my congratulations to you, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly. The
fifty-sixth session is clearly going to be a challenging
one, and one that I predict will further strengthen the
resolve of members to work hand in hand on all the
different issues requiring our attention. I would like
also to convey my appreciation to His Excellency Mr.
Harri Holkeri for the determined and skilful manner in
which he presided over the previous session.
I would also like to take this opportunity to
congratulate the United Nations and its tireless
Secretary-General on the Nobel Peace Prize that they
have jointly and so deservedly been awarded.
This session started in a markedly different
manner from those of previous years. The horrendous
11 September terrorist attacks brought home the very
real threat of terrorism to each and every one of us no
matter what corner of the world we inhabit.
International terrorism does not limit its actions to
individual countries. In fact, although the attacks were
launched on United States soil, the specific targets
chosen clearly show the intent to destroy symbols of
the modern world, icons to free people everywhere.
Indeed, by attacking this cosmopolitan city and
its World Trade Center, the perpetrators targeted us all.
Nationals of more than 60 countries met their death in
those dastardly attacks. Even if our own nationals were
not among those who lost their lives, we all felt under
attack. We all felt violated. In one way or another, our
lives have been altered forever, and we must respond
accordingly.
We must fight the scourge of terrorism with
unreserved and unhesitating resolve. We must do this
not merely as a means to defend all that we hold dear.
We must do it to secure a safer world for ourselves, for
those who will follow us and for those who have had
their lives irrevocably transformed as a result of these
terrorist attacks. That resolve must be our tribute to the
innocent and the brave who lost their lives in the l1
September attacks.
The two-month postponement of the general
debate has provided us with time to reflect and to act.
Malta has joined the international community’s
absolute and unreserved condemnation of the terrorist
acts. We have also stepped up our action in pursuit of
the effective implementation of anti-terrorism
6

measures, including comprehensive compliance with
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001).
Malta was among the first six countries to sign
the International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism, and yesterday became one of
the first States to ratify it. On Sunday, Malta also
acceded to the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected
Persons, including Diplomatic Agents; to the
International Convention against the Taking of
Hostages; and to the International Convention for the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings.
The new realities of today’s world have certainly
brought to the fore the importance of those conventions
on terrorism. At the same time, they have also brought
into bold relief the wisdom that underpins the efforts of
the international community in its pursuit of the
establishment of the International Criminal Court. My
Government is politically committed to the Court and
will seek ratification of the Rome Statute by the
Maltese parliament in the near future. We feel that, in
that way, we are doing all we can to ensure that no
stone is left unturned in our fight against terrorism.
With each passing day, we witness the domino
effect that acts of terror may have at a national,
regional and global level. The impact this has on the
lives of millions must be addressed. We feel therefore
that the time is ripe to conclude the debate on an
operational definition of the perpetration of a terrorist
act. Intensified efforts aimed at the expeditious
conclusion of negotiations on the Indian proposal
should subsequently yield a comprehensive convention
on international terrorism, which will be of benefit to
us all. We firmly believe that such an umbrella
agreement will give added value to, and further
complement, other existing conventions on terrorism.
We also believe that the General Assembly should
actively consider convening a high-level conference on
terrorism under United Nations auspices upon or
immediately after the conclusion of such a convention.
That would serve to reinforce ongoing international
efforts to formulate a collective response to terrorism.
The unity of purpose currently prevailing within
the international community in its fight against
terrorism is perhaps unprecedented. Indeed, the
political will displayed over the past two months is a
clear manifestation, if any were needed, that
multilateralism remains a vital tool in the conduct of
relations among States at a global level. That political
will has also been seen in the other work of the
Organization. Allow me therefore to turn to other
issues on the agenda of the General Assembly.
I would like first to express my Government’s full
support for the initiative of the German and French
Governments to bring the issue of human cloning
before the United Nations. Aimed at drafting a
convention banning human cloning for the purposes of
reproduction, that initiative has received wide support
from all quarters. The concern expressed underlines the
fundamental nature of the threat to humanity posed by
scientists who are unwilling to accept ethical and moral
limits on their work. In responding to the Franco-
German initiative, the United Nations will ensure that a
strong and meaningful convention can be drafted and
adopted within as short a time frame as possible.
The United Nations has already had occasion to
exhibit its ability to act swiftly and decisively when the
conscience of the international community is
heightened. The entry into force of the Ottawa
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and
on Their Destruction, which Malta ratified earlier this
year, was made possible by the international
community’s outrage at the devastating impact of those
indiscriminate weapons, whose horrific effects long
outlast their military purpose.
Similarly, the seriousness and urgency of the
problem of human cloning should expedite the
conclusion of an internationally binding agreement on
that issue. I have no doubt that the richly diverse
beliefs reflected in this room are united in their respect
for human dignity and identity, and their concern with
the fundamental and far-reaching implications of
human cloning.
Other world events continue to pose a threat to
the fundamental right of peoples to live in a secure,
stable and prosperous environment. The current state of
affairs in the Middle East is an example. The dramatic
contrast between the optimism apparent at the
Millennium Assembly’s opening and the escalation in
violence over the past few months has made it
increasingly difficult for the parties to return to the
positions they were in just over 12 months ago.
Malta is convinced that the Mitchell report and
the Tenet Plan provide a realistic and readily
achievable way out of the spiral of violence that has
7

engulfed the region. The peace, security and welfare of
all the people concerned require that their full
implementation be urgently embarked upon. This
necessitates the re-establishment of security
cooperation between the parties in the interests of both
Israelis and Palestinians; the stationing of international
observers, preferably from several regions; and an end
to all new settlement activity, including so-called
“natural growth”. Against this backdrop, Malta hopes
that both parties will be able to return to the
negotiating table with the aim of achieving a just and
permanent peace in the region on the basis of the
relevant Security Council resolutions.
Also in the Mediterranean, the situation in Cyprus
has remained a cause of concern for over 25 years. We
earnestly hope that an early settlement of the Cyprus
question will be found. In this connection, we reaffirm
our full support for efforts to find a solution on the
basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions.
Progress towards lasting peace and stability in the
Mediterranean often appears to unfold very slowly.
Events in the Balkans since we met here last year,
however, bring fresh hope to us all. The end of the
Milosevic era was a clear example of the positive
change that can be wrought through the power of the
people, signalling a fresh beginning for the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and indeed for all the
neighbouring independent republics.
In recent months, turmoil and unrest have also
threatened to engulf the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. Yet the unfolding situation now reveals
encouraging signs of the power of diplomacy.
International assistance extended to republics in the
Balkan region is also indicative of the power within
each of us to make our own contribution and to play a
part.
Malta feels this onus most strongly and actively
seeks to play a role on the international stage that goes
beyond the mere limitations of its geographical size. In
fact, in keeping with this consciousness, Malta is
proceeding steadily towards its objective of acceding to
the European Union — a union of like-minded States
where we naturally belong, not only politically, but
also economically, culturally and historically. Our
intention is therefore to become an integral part of the
European Union at its next enlargement, enabling us to
participate fully in a decision-making process that all
too often carries wide-ranging implications for our
country.
Like other candidate countries, Malta is currently
negotiating the terms of entry into the European Union
in what will be an unprecedented widening and
deepening of the Union. Already more than halfway
through this process, we are working hard to ensure
that Malta is not only well equipped to deal with the
challenges of membership but is also in a position to
make a significant contribution to the Union. This
historic project and the enhancement of Mediterranean
cooperation are both of immediate concern to Malta.
We feel that they go hand in hand.
An increase in dialogue between all nations and a
move towards securing a safer planet are in everyone’s
interest. However, threats to international security, not
least those posed by weapons of mass destruction,
continue to lurk in the background. In July this year,
Malta deposited its instrument of ratification of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Malta hopes
that the remaining 13 countries whose ratification is
necessary for the Treaty to come into force will join the
84 countries that have already done this. Thus a
significant collective step will have been taken towards
reducing the risk of nuclear disaster.
Not so long ago, the terms “environment” and
“international security” in the same sentence would
have drawn a perplexed response from most audiences.
Today, the link between the two is becoming
increasingly apparent. The urgency in addressing the
greatest threats to our natural environment was made
amply clear in Bonn during the sixth session of the
Conference of the Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change. Despite
being faced with seemingly insurmountable obstacles,
the international community succeeded in forging the
Earth’s first major action-oriented response to the
phenomenon of global warming.
In this respect, allow me to offer my
Government’s expression of gratitude to the Chairman
of the Conference, Mr. Jan Pronk, as well as to my
compatriot Mr. Michael Zammit Cutajar, Executive
Secretary of the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, for their enormous
personal efforts to secure a successful outcome. Their
success laid the groundwork for the breakthrough
achieved at the seventh session of the Conference in
Marrakech last week. The agreement on the modalities
8

of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol has opened
the door to its ratification by all States signatories.
Indeed, Malta deposited its instrument of ratification
yesterday and looks forward to the present momentum
being sustained, leading to an early entry into force of
this landmark Protocol.
Difficult and complex as it may be to tackle
environmental global problems, the most challenging
environmental problems are often those in our own
backyards. With one of the highest population densities
in the world, Malta has achieved a high level of human
development without any natural resources at its
disposal. In seeking to continue to raise our living
standards, we grapple daily with difficult decisions
aimed at ensuring that economic development on our
islands is environmentally sustainable.
There is no simple trade-off between the
protection of the environment and the production of
wealth. The Mediterranean Sea, which provides Malta
with its economic lifeline, is perhaps the most tangible
proof of the fact that economic progress at the expense
of the environment is no progress at all. In reaping its
bountiful fruits, we know that they are not unlimited
and, if not tended to, will dry up altogether. The same
applies to other seas and oceans.
With this in mind, Malta yesterday became the
thirtieth State to accede to the Agreement for the
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea relating to the
Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks — a move
that will bring the Agreement itself into force on 11
December 2001. For Malta, having initiated the process
that led to the United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea, it is a source of great satisfaction to
contribute to the further development of this veritable
pillar of international law.
While there is inevitably still more that can be
done, both at a domestic and an international level, I
hope that this General Assembly session will serve as a
renewed impetus for us all to promote everything
necessary to make the world safer and more secure.
This is our fundamental duty, as political leaders, for
the welfare of present and future generations. We must
continue to foster social justice, promote equitable
development, nurture confidence among peoples, settle
conflicts and take the appropriate measures to ensure
security for all. Yet in doing all this, Governments and
peoples must ensure that we continue first and
foremost to build peace in the minds of men and
women. That undertaking, adopted by the generation
that survived the Second World War, retains its noble
authenticity today as we face the challenges of our own
times."
56,2001,ZWE,"﻿My delegation
congratulates Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. His election to that office is a demonstration of
the confidence and trust that the international
community has placed in him to steer it through the
challenges of our time. It is our fervent hope that,
through his leadership, this Assembly will translate the
Millennium Declaration into reality.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank
his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, for the
sterling work accomplished during the past session of
the Assembly.
Today, I am privileged to join others in
congratulating Mr. Kofi Annan for his re-election as
United Nations Secretary-General for a second term.
Mr. Annan’s re-election is indeed both a testimony to
and recognition of his unique and rare abilities to give
leadership, vision and unity of purpose to the
international community in meeting the challenges that
face us today. This recognition has been amply
demonstrated by the conferment of the prestigious
Nobel Peace Prize on the person of the Secretary-
General and on the United Nations. I congratulate both
Mr. Annan and the United Nations.
The Secretary-General enters the elite corps of
Nobel laureates at a time of most serious challenge to
international solidarity and cooperation, as we reflect
on the events of 11 September, when the people of the
United States of America, and indeed the whole world,
were plunged into unprecedented sorrow in the wake of
the heinous terrorist attacks here in New York and in
Washington. This is indisputably the most brutal act of
terrorism in this new millennium. Our hearts go out to
the families who lost their loved ones, and indeed all
the people and the Government of the United States. It
is our duty as Members of this world body, which
stands for global harmony, peace and security, to say
“Never again” to such vileness. Zimbabwe lost two of
its nationals in those tragic attacks.
As the people of the United States grapple with
the threat posed by biological weapons of mass
destruction in the form of anthrax, we in Zimbabwe,
who have hitherto been the greatest victims of this
weapon, know what it means and what they are going
35

through. For during our own liberation struggle,
anthrax was used as a weapon of mass destruction by
the racist regime of Ian Smith. The anthrax was
developed by the apartheid regime in South Africa
under the guidance of Dr. Basson, better known as “Dr.
Death”, who then supplied it to Ian Smith. Many
Zimbabweans perished both before and after
independence. The anthrax spores that were spread by
the racist regime of Ian Smith during our liberation
struggle more than 20 years ago continue to claim
victims exclusively within the black population of our
country to this day. More people and cattle have died of
anthrax this year in Zimbabwe than elsewhere in the
world. Thus not only are we vehemently opposed to
this evil scourge and other forms of terrorism, but we
also know the pain and loss associated with it.
In my address to the General Assembly at last
year’s session, I dwelt at length on the situation in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. Since that time,
some progress has been made in implementing the
ceasefire agreement in that country. All those involved
in the process — the signatories to the ceasefire
agreement and the United Nations Security Council —
are agreed that conditions are favourable for the
deployment of United Nations peacekeepers under
phase III of the deployment of the United Nations
Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo (MONUC). As a matter of fact, just
yesterday, the Security Council adopted resolution
1376 (2001), supporting the launching of phase III
deployment of MONUC. Nevertheless, the Security
Council, by adopting what it calls a step-by-step
approach, continues to show excessive caution or
hesitancy, almost indistinguishable from lack of
commitment or confidence, in the peace process in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. This is the major
threat to that peace process today.
I wish to renew our appeal to the Security
Council to more strongly and convincingly demonstrate
its support for peace in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo by providing adequate human, financial and
other resources. In this context, we note that as of 30
September 2001, unpaid assessed contributions for
MONUC to the Democratic Republic of the Congo
special account amounted to $246.9 million. In
addition, the trust fund established by the Secretary-
General in October 1999 to support the peace process
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had, two
years later, received only the paltry sum of $1.1
million.
The serious matter of inadequate resources was
one of the major factors that contributed to the
curtailment, both in number of participants and in
duration, of the inter-Congolese dialogue in Addis
Ababa last month. We welcome and appreciate South
Africa’s offer to host the next session of the national
dialogue and meet some of the related expenses. We
hasten to add, however, that South Africa must not be
burdened and abandoned because of this generosity and
willingness to contribute to the peacemaking efforts.
We all must play our part in restoring peace and
stability to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and
indeed to the Great Lakes region.
The continued unnecessary suffering and loss of
life among the civilians in Angola are indefensible.
Through the Sanctions Committee and other measures,
we have determined that UNITA must be denied and
deprived of the resources and means to continue to
wage war against the Angolan people. It is time that we
ensure that those sanctions are indeed effective by not
only respecting that sanctions regime ourselves, but
also exposing those who continue to aid and abet
UNITA in its deadly activities.
The situation in the Middle East demands urgent
action and resolution on the basis of the long-standing
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338
(1973). The question of a Palestinian State brooks no
delay. Israel must bite the bullet and accept that until a
Palestinian State becomes a reality, there can never be
lasting peace in the Middle East.
I must express our concern over the lack of
progress in the area of reforming the Security Council
to make it more democratic and fully representative of
the aspirations of a large section of the international
community which has had a limited voice for far too
long. It is our considered view that conflict resolution
around the globe could be enhanced by a reformed and
more representative Security Council.
On the eve of the Doha meeting, my delegation
would like to stress that necessary measures must be
taken to strengthen the ability of developing countries
to be integrated in a beneficial way into the global
system. The human and institutional capacities of
developing countries must be strengthened, and more
emphasis must be placed on enhancing the role of trade
and development, with better access provided for goods
36

and services from developing countries. Currently, we
are experiencing a situation in which developing
countries in general, and African, Caribbean and
Pacific countries in particular, seem to lose through the
World Trade Organization arrangement the little that
they had gained, even from previous protocols.
One of the most enduring features of the present
and of the latter part of the last century has been the
persistence of the colonial legacy in many developing
countries. That legacy has been evident in relations
between and within States. We need not recall much
more evidence of the persistence of this phenomenon
than the proceedings of the World Conference against
Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and
Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa,
barely two months ago.
The continued refusal on the part of some former
colonial Powers to acknowledge the devastating effects
that colonialism has had, and continues to have, on the
economic development of most of the former colonies
has also been much in evidence. It is no accident that it
is those former colonies that today occupy the lower
rungs of the development totem pole.
In Zimbabwe, the colonial legacy is poignantly
evident in the racially skewed land-ownership
structure, which is a direct result of racist policies and
the laws of successive colonial regimes between 1890
and 1980. Over 70 per cent of the arable land — the
best of that land — is owned and utilized by less than 1
per cent of the population, represented by
approximately 4,100 white farmers, most of them of
British descent, while nearly 13 million black
Zimbabweans eke out a living from the remaining 30
per cent — the worst of the arable land. Such a
situation has to be corrected in the interests of equity,
justice, social harmony and political stability in the
country and, indeed, in our region of southern Africa.
My Government has begun a land reform and
redistribution programme, which, while ensuring that
more people are settled on acquired land, will leave the
current owners with only one farm each. At present,
some of them own 18 farms each — and an average
farm in Zimbabwe is 2,000 hectares. Some, like the
Openheimer family, own land that is nearly the size of
Belgium — one man owns property the size of
Belgium in Zimbabwe. My Government’s land reform
programme guarantees that none of the white farmers
will be left landless. Every existing white farmer who
wants to farm is assured of getting one farm. The
programme is not about total alienation or
dispossession, but about equitable redistribution. What
is more generous or equitable than that?
As to who should pay for compensation, we
reached understandings and agreements with the
former colonial master when we negotiated our
independence at Lancaster House in 1979. Obligations
to pay compensation were assumed by the former
colonial Power. Provided that all parties honour their
obligations, the so-called land crisis in Zimbabwe will
evaporate overnight. That is the crisis in my country, to
which the spokesman of the European Union referred
from this rostrum. Zimbabwe has policemen in
Kosovo, policemen in Sierra Leone and policemen in
East Timor. We are trying to bring peace to the Congo.
We do not have a crisis; we have a land dispute.
The lofty objectives of the United Nations
Charter in the economic arena will remain unfulfilled
unless all Member States join in efforts, genuinely and
seriously, to redress inherited colonial imbalances that
persist in developing countries. Social justice, political
stability and sustainable development in Zimbabwe can
be better achieved through genuine and committed
support for land redistribution programmes than
through the vilification or demonization of its
leadership and policies.
It is most unfortunate that our efforts at rectifying
unsustainable colonial imbalances are seen by some as
a crisis; the real crisis lies in the persistence of that
legacy. Zimbabweans are resolved to correct that
colonial injustice, in spite of the outcry from some
quarters by people who regard the defence of the
present injustice as their historic responsibility. It is
unacceptable that a minority, whether black or white,
should own over 70 per cent of the best arable land in
any country. That may be acceptable in some countries;
in Zimbabwe, we have decided to say “No”.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic has become a serious
developmental issue. As the Secretary-General’s report
on the work of the Organization (A56/1) indicates, the
pandemic is destroying the economic and social fabric
in our countries. Zimbabwe’s infection rate among the
adult population is estimated to be 30 per cent, while
hundreds of thousands of children have already been
orphaned as a result of this dreaded disease. In the light
of this, my Government and, indeed, those of other
developing countries, will need all the assistance we
37

can get to complement our own efforts. We look
forward to having this issue be seriously addressed by
the international community.
The international community should develop
strategies to ensure that AIDS drugs developed by
pharmaceutical companies become more affordable for
developing countries. Let me extend my sincere thanks
to the Secretary-General for convening the special
session on HIV/AIDS in June this year. We hope that
the implementation of the resolutions of that
conference will go some way towards checking the
spread of the disease.
In conclusion, let me assure one and all that
Zimbabwe will partner all international efforts towards
the eradication of terrorism in all its forms, as well as
exert all its energy in combating the pestilences that
afflict humanity, especially poverty and
underdevelopment.





"
56,2001,EST,"﻿First of all, allow me to
congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan and all of
my colleagues on having received the Nobel Peace
Prize. There is no doubt that without the United
Nations, our world would be much less secure, with far
fewer prospects for resolving conflicts. I would also
like to commend the efforts that have been made
during the last few years to reform this Organization so
that it can better deal with the new challenges it has to
face. In addition, please allow me, Sir, to congratulate
you on having been elected President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly.
After the terrorist attacks of 11 September, it
became apparent that, when we are all confronted with
a common threat, many existing disputes and
12

differences become insignificant. The United Nations
Member States together have condemned the terrorist
acts. It is of the utmost importance to maintain that
unity and persistently to reinforce it with concrete
actions. Terrorism is the ultimate challenge to our
common values, and our struggle against that threat has
only begun.
The destruction and elimination of terrorist
networks is a time-consuming task for which there are
no instant solutions. The United Nations does,
however, have effective measures at its disposal for
fighting terrorism: the international conventions that
the United Nations has adopted over the years and the
sanctions that can be applied to hamper terrorist
activities. The ratification of those conventions and the
enforcement of those sanctions by every United
Nations Member State is, at this moment, one of those
truly important tasks that it behoves all Members to
carry out. I am glad to be able to confirm that Estonia
has either already ratified, or is the middle of the
parliamentary procedures for ratifying, all of the
appropriate United Nations conventions. Estonia has
taken all necessary steps to apply Security Council
resolutions 1333 (2000) and 1373 (2001).
Estonia has improved and intensified cooperation
and the exchange of information with its neighbours
and partners. We have expressed our solidarity and
unreserved support to the United States in the fight
against terrorism. We have aligned ourselves with the
European Union’s 21 September anti-terrorist summit’s
final document and action plan. With our neighbours
Latvia and Lithuania, we have also formulated
common measures for preventing possible terrorist
attacks and for applying coordinated tactics in case we
become the victims of terrorist activities. We have
intensified international border controls and police
cooperation.
Many programmes that had been adopted earlier
are now proving to be extremely useful in the struggle
against terrorism. The Financial Action Task Force on
Money Laundering, for example, has given a high
rating to Estonia’s anti-money-laundering legislation.
A recent audit shows that Estonian banks have no
contractual relations with any organization or
individual alleged to be connected with international
terrorism.
The international political atmosphere in
Estonia’s immediate vicinity, the Baltic Sea region, is, I
am glad to report, peaceful, which is conducive to
stable development and good-neighbourly cooperation.
Up to now, Estonians have hardly had to deal with the
direct results of terrorism. But this fall’s terrorist
attacks were aimed directly at international peace and
stability. This means that now we, too, keenly sense the
danger that faces us all. This places the United Nations,
as the world Organization, at the centre of the ongoing
struggle.
The reform processes launched during the last
few years to reorganize and reform the United Nations
are also appropriate for dealing with current problems.
Now, however, we must ask ourselves if there is some
way that we can speed up and intensify these reforms
so as to better deal with the urgency of the prevailing
situation. In our new situation, I would bring forth
three well-worn and proven principles that apply not
only specifically to the United Nations, but to other
aspects of international cooperation as well.
First, we must once again ask ourselves how
exactly each of us can make the most fruitful
contribution. Secondly, what can we do to increase the
efficiency of the Organization? And thirdly, I would
like to stress the principle of openness.
First of all, let us deal with the matter of every
Member’s individual contribution. The United Nations
brings together Member States with a wide range of
resources and capabilities. Even the most successful
nation’s reserves and capacities, however, have a limit.
Therefore, it is only natural that every Member State
carefully evaluate how it can be the most useful. It is
equally important for Members to realistically assess
how high a level of development they have achieved,
and, when appropriate, to refrain from accepting aid in
favour of those who need it the most.
This is the flip side of development. As one rises
out of poverty and underdevelopment, one should also
grow up and become more responsible, acknowledging
that obligations rise along with living standards. Last
year, for example, Estonia decided to relinquish its
right to pay reduced contributions to the peacekeeping
budget. For Estonia, to give up the rights to such a
discount was not a step taken lightly — it was a
decision based on the Government’s realization that
with our rapid development, we had acquired new
responsibilities. The United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) had, after all, found that Estonia
had developed to the point where the UNDP could
13

terminate the activities of its mission in Estonia in
December 2000.
Of course, we miss working together with such a
useful cooperative agency as the UNDP representation
in Estonia. Yet we realize quite well that there are
many regions in the world which badly need their
assistance, while for Estonia the presence of the UNDP
mission is no longer essential. In other words,
maintaining the representation would be irresponsible
on our part, as it would use resources for which there is
a greater need elsewhere. This means that Estonia’s
cooperation with the United Nations and its agencies
has qualitatively advanced to a higher level. This has
been clearly demonstrated by the founding of the
United Nations Building project in Estonia. The
intention is to have the representation of various United
Nations agencies all under one roof. The fact that the
United Nations is gaining importance in the eyes of the
Estonian public is evidenced by, inter alia, the fact that
the Estonian United Nations Association has been
steadily increasing its activities.
During the last few years, Estonia has clearly
progressed from an aid recipient to an aid provider.
This transformation has been confirmed by, among
others, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) Development Assistance
Committee, which, in its 2000 yearbook, lists Estonia
for the first time as a donor nation. Therefore, those
who assisted Estonia during its now completed
transition phase can clearly see now that their aid has
borne fruit. We, in turn, are willing to share the
experience that we have gained in the course of the last
10 years. As a matter of fact, we have already
established cooperative efforts of this nature with
several countries.
I spoke earlier about how every Member State has
an obligation to evaluate how it can best help the
United Nations in its endeavours. Of equal importance
are the ongoing efforts to increase the effectiveness of
the Organization as a whole. In this light, I would
emphasize two aspects: reform of the Security Council
and the Brahimi report on improving United Nations
peacekeeping operations.
We must ensure that our cooperative efforts for
solving the urgent problems confronting us do not
become entangled in the deficiencies of the structure or
the working order of the Security Council. We all know
very well what these deficiencies are, and therefore our
common goal is quite clear: to increase the
representativeness, transparency and efficiency of the
Security Council. The enlivened discussions and the
shift towards greater openness in the work of the
Security Council give us hope. We supported the
strenuous efforts of Harri Holkeri, the General
Assembly’s previous President, to intensify the
activities of the Working Group dealing with reform.
We share the view that it is time to move from
discussions on to the negotiating phase.
Estonia supports the enlargement of the Security
Council in both the permanent and non-permanent
categories of membership, just as we support reform of
the Security Council’s decision-making process. In the
confrontational context of the cold war, the veto in the
Security Council was a means for the great Powers to
protect their interests. Even then it was avoided, and
any light-handed use of the veto resulted in
condemnation by the international community. Now,
however, the sense of trust among the Security Council
members has grown immensely, and a limitation of the
use of the veto would be an appropriate reflection of
this improved atmosphere.
The composition of the Council, which still
reflects the power relationships that prevailed in 1945,
is another issue that cries out for resolution. From the
inception of the United Nations that year until just a
decade ago, the people of my country were afforded
only rare glimpses of the goings-on at the United
Nations through fissures in the iron curtain. When we
finally established our independence in 1991, we
emerged into the international arena only to discover
that the Security Council, judging by its composition,
was still stuck back in the year 1945. This strikes
Estonia as being anachronistic, if not wrong-headed.
The guarantors and greatest contributors to stability in
the world have, in the course of half a century, changed
fundamentally. We need not fear opening a discussion
on whether the moral and legal reasoning underlying
Security Council membership in the wake of the
Second World War is still appropriate in the post-cold-
war era — or this post-11 September era. Nothing
underscores the need to come back to this question
more than the challenge that we are currently facing.
Participation in the United Nations peacekeeping
operations is an inseparable part of Estonia’s national
security policy. We therefore fully support the
endeavours outlined in the Brahimi report concerning
the reformation of United Nations peacekeeping.
14

Estonia is in full agreement with the report’s
comprehensive and long-term approach to the
prevention and solution of conflicts. Although we often
talk about the need for limiting expenditures, in this
case it is clear that in order to increase efficiency,
means must be found for increasing the budget of
United Nations peacekeeping operations. We are
pleased to say, as I mentioned earlier, that we have
contributed to this effort to increase those
expenditures.
Let me proceed to my third theme, namely,
openness. Openness and transparency are essential for
many reasons. Terrorist attacks have been directed at
everyday interpersonal relations and at our usual means
of communication, such as the postal system and air
travel. Therefore, we need to make concerted efforts to
ensure that the movement of people and ideas will not
suffer from the threat of terrorism. Terrorism itself is
fed primarily by misinformation, disinformation and
misperceptions. Here too, openness is important; it is
essential to communicate our intentions and ideas both
to those who support us as well as to those who doubt
us.
Openness is also essential in more conventional
situations, for example, in the traditional political
decision-making process, be it in the international or
domestic arena. Here, Estonia can share experiences in
the sphere of information technology. Last year, the
Estonian Government began to hold its cabinet
meetings electronically. All information concerning
government activities now moves through electronic
channels — through the Internet. In addition to
speeding up decision-making and providing monetary
savings, information now becomes available to the
general public through the Internet, much faster and
more efficiently. More and more Estonians are making
use of the opportunities offered by the public sector —
the services of the revenue office, local governments
and federal agencies — through the Internet. Having
now connected all Estonian public schools to the
Internet, the Government also plans to bring all public
libraries online. This last summer, the Estonian State
Chancellery launched a unique new project by opening
a direct democracy portal called “Today I Decide”.
This portal allows everyone to present ideas, initiatives
and proposals, as well as to comment upon proposed
legislation. New ideas that have been proposed by
portal users are passed on to the appropriate
government offices and agencies for action. Many of
you may be interested in finding out more about the
initiatives I have described, and we are more than
happy to share our experiences with you.
Finally, I would like to stress the fact that the
grave events that have affected all of us in the last few
months will not prevent us from moving ahead. Our
decisiveness and sense of unity have only been
reinforced by what has happened. We must not discard
or forget all the common projects initiated before 11
September. In many parts of the world, nothing has
changed for those who suffer from poverty, hunger and
persecution. Thinking about our projects for the future,
I am especially pleased that the United Nations special
session on children, which was postponed owing to the
terrorist attacks, will nevertheless take place in May
next year. The goal of this upcoming special session, to
create better conditions and opportunities for children
everywhere, continues to be of the utmost importance
to us. It is precisely for initiatives of this kind, which
endeavour to achieve a better future for mankind, that
the United Nations Organization has earned the Nobel
Peace Prize.
In conclusion, please allow me to express my
personal condolences and the condolences of all
Estonians to the families of those who perished in the
air tragedy that occurred just a few days ago in the
borough of Queens.




"
56,2001,TKM,"﻿First of all, on behalf of the Turkmenistan delegation, I
would like to express my deep condolences to the
families and relatives of the victims of the air crash
that happened yesterday in New York.
I have the honour, on behalf of Mr. Saparmurat
Niyazov, the President of Turkmenistan, to
congratulate the United Nations and Secretary-General
Kofi Annan on receiving the prestigious Nobel Peace
Prize, and I wish the United Nations every success in
its effective and highly competent work aimed at
solving the thorniest problems affecting today’s world.
Mr. President, allow me to congratulate you on
your election as President of the fifty-sixth session of
the General Assembly. We are confident that your
experience and knowledge will expedite the work of
the General Assembly most effectively.
Turkmenistan is participating in the work of the
United Nations General Assembly for the tenth time as
an independent entity in international relations and for
the sixth time as a State whose status of neutrality has
been recognized by the community of nations. Since
the adoption of the General Assembly resolution 50/80
on the Permanent Neutrality of Turkmenistan, which is
of historic significance for us, our young State has
consistently witnessed the support of the United
Nations in striving for peace and in our foreign policy
initiatives aimed at strengthening peace, security and
stability. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would
like to convey to the heads of delegations present here
and to the representatives of the member States of the
United Nations the words of gratitude from President
Niyazov and assure you of Turkmenistan’s unswerving
commitment to its international obligations as a
permanently neutral State.
Relations with the United Nations, based on close
cooperation and strict observance of the fundamental
principles of the Organization, have been and remain at
the fore of Turkmenistan’s foreign policy strategy. For
us, the United Nations is the main and universal
decision-making entity for the most crucial problems of
global development. We share the view of the
Organization itself that providing it with a new impetus
in view of the rapidly changing realities of today’s
world is of the utmost relevance. In our view the main
aspect of this new drive is respect for the overall
balance of interests on the basis of the fundamental
criteria underpinning the functioning of the
Organization, its ideals, the letter and the spirit of the
United Nations Charter. It is our firm belief that the
United Nations has proven over the years of its
existence that it represents the most effective and just
mechanism for resolving international issues. It is the
mainstay of the whole system of international stability
and security.
Turkmenistan has always stood for, and continues
to stand for, the strengthening and expansion of the
United Nations role in the world. In this connection,
we believe that international law and the United
Nations Charter, which is based on principles of peace,
equality, respect for nations and for their rights and
sovereignty and choosing their own way of
development, continue to serve as the basis for the
world order in this new century. This belief reflects our
principles as a neutral State, the entire philosophy of
our country’s foreign policy and our practice in this
decade-long participation in regional and international
affairs.
Turkmenistan attaches the utmost importance to
its cooperation with the United Nations and its
specialized agencies. Our Government and the United
Nations Development Programme jointly carry out a
number of large-scale projects in the social and
economic spheres that have yielded good results for the
environment and many other areas, including health,
education and ecology. Our cooperation with the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United
38

Nations Population Fund and other agencies has been
most effective. Turkmenistan will continue to maintain
close ties with these important agencies of the United
Nations in the search for new avenues of cooperation.
We consider interaction with United Nations
bodies and agencies to be an important and useful
instrument in our regional, economic, cultural and
informational cooperation, as well as in our joint
efforts with the Governments of neighbouring countries
to implement other international programmes of
various types. All of this undoubtedly fosters
neighbourly relations and partnership ties in the region.
Therefore, our country intends to focus in the future on
maintaining the closest possible contact with the
offices of United Nations specialized agencies, whose
importance continues to grow.
Along these lines, I should like to draw particular
attention to the situation that has emerged in our region
since the tragic events of 11 September in the United
States. It was with tremendous grief that the people of
Turkmenistan heard the news from America. The
President of Turkmenistan, on behalf of the people of
our country, expressed sincere condolences to the
families and relatives of victims, and he addressed
words of consolation and compassion to all Americans.
These acts of terror have been unconditionally
condemned in our country. The Government of
Turkmenistan was one of the first to make a statement
in support of international efforts to combat terrorism
effectively. Turkmenistan recommended uniting such
efforts under the auspices of the United Nations.
Action needs to be closely coordinated by the members
of the international community on the basis of
international law, ensuring that no manifestation of
terrorism in this world will go unpunished and making
possible effective and legitimate measures to combat
this evil.
Given what has happened, our country has
cooperated actively with the United Nations in
providing transportation through Turkmenistan for
humanitarian supplies being sent to Afghanistan by
United Nations specialized humanitarian relief
agencies, including UNICEF, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food
Programme, as well as other governmental and non-
governmental organizations. Turkmenistan’s
constructive position has received general support from
the United Nations and the majority of States in the
world.
We are greatly concerned over the situation in
Afghanistan and the ongoing armed conflict in that
country, which affects stability as well as social and
economic development in the region. Turkmenistan
shares the view that there is no alternative to a peaceful
resolution of the Afghanistan question through
negotiations. That is why we are convinced that the
road to peace in this long-suffering country lies in
political negotiations under the auspices of the United
Nations. In this respect, we greatly appreciate the
efforts of the Secretary-General to enhance the role of
the United Nations in finding a solution to the Afghan
crisis, because it is precisely the United Nations that
must play a role in working out international legal
mechanisms to resolve the situation in Afghanistan.
As to the implementation of a strategy for
peaceful development and cooperation in the region, I
would like to stress that the foreign policy of neutrality
pursued by Turkmenistan from the beginning follows
precisely this path. This point also touches on the
question of exploiting the valuable hydrocarbon
deposits of the Caspian Sea Basin, which involves not
only regional interests but also the interests of many
other nations of the world as well as those of trans-
national companies. It is our policy to take those
interests into account.
Naturally, the oil and natural gas deposits in the
Caspian Sea are extremely important energy resources
for the twenty-first century. Their rational and effective
exploitation, and the construction of an appropriate
pipeline infrastructure to deliver these energy supplies
to world markets, will ensure considerable economic
growth for many States and the welfare of their people.
The United Nations can play an important role in this
process, as it is capable of creating a mechanism to
guarantee the safe and unimpeded transportation of
such raw materials along inter-State pipelines. As the
Assembly will recall, Turkmenistan put forward this
idea at the Millennium Summit and suggested that an
international convention should be worked out in this
regard.
Effective economic activity in the Caspian is
inherently linked to ensuring stability in the Caspian
region. Turkmenistan believes that the Caspian Sea
area should be a zone of peace, stability and sustained
39

international cooperation based on the principles of
justice and mutual respect.
It is clear that the problems now faced by
Member States of the United Nations are complex and
manifold. Their solution is possible not only through
collective efforts but also through the necessary
recognition of the individual role and responsibility of
each nation as a member of the world community. It is
this logic of political behaviour that Turkmenistan has
in mind when it limits itself to the goals of
strengthening peace and promoting economic, social
and cultural development. Our country is always ready
for constructive partnership, and the United Nations
knows that it can always rely on Turkmenistan."
56,2001,GHA,"﻿Mr. Han’s election to the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly is a tribute
to his vast experience and accomplished diplomatic
skills. It is also an honour to his country, the Republic
of Korea, with which my country enjoys the most
cordial and friendly relations. I ask him to please
accept our congratulations.
May I also express our gratitude and appreciation
to his immediate predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of
Finland, for the able manner in which he guided the
work of the fifty-fifth session.
I wish to express the heartfelt gratitude of the
Government and the people of Ghana to the States
Members of the United Nations for having placed their
trust and the destiny of this universal Organization
once again in the hands of an illustrious son of Ghana
and of Africa, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the next five years.
The Nobel Peace Prize, awarded jointly to the
Secretary-General and the United Nations, is in
recognition of their devotion to the pursuit of global
peace and security. On this occasion, I can only
endorse the sentiments expressed by Mr. Annan that
the award should serve as an impetus to record greater
achievements in the service of humanity.
The last century witnessed laudable achievements
in the political, economic, scientific and technological
spheres. Despite these positive developments, history,
in the end, will remember it for the numerous conflicts
that marked it, with their attendant socio-economic
disruptions, environmental degradation, the emergence
of hitherto-unknown diseases and the persistence of
poverty among the majority of our people.
The tragic terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001
awakened the world to the new challenges confronting
international peace and security. The fight against
terrorism must be a collective action, guided by the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter
and of international law. Ghana welcomes the
international community’s response in confronting this
threat to peace and security. We also applaud the swift
response of the Security Council and of the General
Assembly, which not only condemned the attacks, but
also took measures aimed at confronting terrorism.
Resolution 1373 (2001), which outlines the measures
that all countries — irrespective of size, wealth or
might — should adopt to forestall and combat terrorism
must be pursued by all peace-loving nations.
As we forge ahead, our quest to free the world of
terrorism will be enhanced if we adequately address
24

both the symptoms and the underlying causes that give
rise to such criminal acts. Developing countries should
be provided with the necessary resources to play a
meaningful role in confronting these challenges.
The recent threats and crimes against humanity
have reinforced our belief in the need for the early
establishment of the International Criminal Court, in
order to enable the global community to deal
appropriately with such phenomena. We therefore urge
all Member States that have not yet ratified the Statute
to do so to enable it to enter into force.
The proliferation of conventional weapons,
notably small arms and light weapons, has been of
great concern to the Government and the people of
Ghana. They are now the weapons of choice and the
tools for promoting violence and conflicts in Africa.
Such weapons have always been used against the most
vulnerable in society, especially women and children.
We therefore welcome the Programme of Action
adopted at the recent United Nations Conference on the
Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects. While it does not respond to all of our
concerns or meet all of our expectations, we still
consider it to be the beginning of a process that will
lead to an internationally binding instrument on
managing and controlling such weapons.
Conflicts, particularly in the developing world,
have robbed us of the opportunity to improve the
circumstances of our people. Sustainable development
can be achieved only in an environment of peace and
security. Ghana will continue to live up to its Charter
obligations and to play an active role in international
peacekeeping, with a view to assisting the United
Nations in its task of maintaining global peace and
security.
Only a year ago, world leaders, at the Millennium
Summit, committed themselves to providing leadership
to create a better world, one which would uphold
human dignity, equality and equity at the global level,
through the elimination of poverty and the creation of a
conducive environment for development.
To achieve this, it is imperative that the
international community take steps to assist countries
that have created the necessary environment for sound
economic development. This will enable them to reach
their potential for sustained growth through conducive
policies concerning debt, market access, transfer of
technology, increased flows of capital and foreign
direct investment, and enhanced official development
assistance.
It is important, particularly at this moment when
the fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade
Organization is taking place in Doha, to emphasize the
critical role of global trade in generating the resources
for financing development in developing countries. The
outcome of the Doha Conference, our commitment to
pursuing the decisions and processes emanating from
that Conference, the implementation of the
commitments made in the Uruguay Round and how we
address intellectual property rights should clearly
determine our commitment to eradicating poverty
throughout the world.
We believe that the success of our efforts at the
global level will depend largely on the quality of
governance in our respective countries. We cannot
claim to uphold the dignity of every human being or
make claims to social equity if we fail to uphold
democracy and the rule of law, combat corruption and
strengthen the institutions of governance. It is therefore
gratifying to note that in the past few years democracy
has begun to take root in Africa. This trend should be
encouraged and consolidated with support from the
international community.
It is for this reason that Ghana fully endorsed the
Constitutive Act of the African Union, which, among
other things, rejects unconstitutional changes of
Government and reaffirms respect for democratic
principles, human rights, the rule of law and good
governance. The decisions we took in Lusaka during
the last summit of the Organization of African Unity
(OAU) on the African Union and the New Partnership
for African Development have reasserted Africa’s
leadership and responsibility for the continent’s
development agenda. Ghana intends to play its part
through positive diplomacy and cooperation with other
African countries to accelerate regional integration and
make Africa a zone of economic empowerment.
Africa accepts its primary responsibility for its
own development. However, the contribution of its
development partners will continue to be crucial. In
this connection, the outcomes of the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Monterrey, Mexico, and of the World
Summit on Sustainable Development, to be held in
Johannesburg, will be critical tests of our willingness
25

to tackle concretely the challenges we set for ourselves
in the Millennium Declaration.
At the onset of the new millennium, we hope that
gender issues will continue to engage the attention of
the international community. The adoption of the
Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, in 1995,
and the subsequent adoption of further actions and
initiatives by the twenty-third special session of the
General Assembly, last year, indicate the universal
recognition of the need to empower women as partners
in socio-economic development. As a result of the
great importance that Ghana attaches to the
advancement of women, our Government has elevated
the national machinery for the advancement of women
into a full-fledged ministry headed by a cabinet
minister. We are determined, through practical
measures, to make our women full and effective
partners in the development of our country.
Ghana welcomes the remarkable success achieved
by the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session with
the adoption, after protracted negotiations, of the
resolutions on the scale of assessments for the regular
and peacekeeping budgets. It is therefore our
considered view that both resolutions should ensure the
financial solvency and viability of the Organization.
In conclusion, I wish to reassure the Assembly of
Ghana’s abiding commitment to the United Nations and
its ideals. The Organization is the best means available
for maintaining international peace and security and
promoting fruitful international cooperation. We must
all resolve to strengthen our will to make it more
effective and to redeem the majority of our people from
wars, disease and poverty by providing it with financial
and material resources commensurate with its
responsibilities.

"
56,2001,IRN,"﻿At the outset, Sir, I would
like to congratulate you on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly. I would also like
to express my appreciation for the wise and persistent
efforts of the Secretary-General during the current
crucial world situation.
Human society stepped into the third millennium
with hopes and expectations. The United Nations
designated the last year of the twentieth century as the
International Year for the Culture of Peace and the first
year of the twenty-first century as the United Nations
Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. Today, however,
the world faces immense tragedies and grave concerns.
One of the most brutal and savage manifestations of
this was the terrorist attack against the American
people.
The decisive, immediate and unequivocal global
condemnation of the terrorist attacks of 11 September
represents the emergence of a public attitude and
common political will all over the world to counter
terrorism in all its manifestations, irrespective of
motives, perpetrators or victims. The Leader of the
Islamic Revolution of Iran spoke of the “jihad against
this evil phenomenon” so as to highlight the genuine
view of Islam and the Islamic Revolution vis-à-vis
terrorism and violence.
Immediately after the carnage of 11 September,
and in the name of the people and Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, I expressed sympathy with
29

the American nation and all the victims of that criminal
act. And in the first days of the tragedy, in a letter to
the Secretary-General, I underlined that,
“Terrorism is the common problem of today’s
world. It threatens peace, liberty, spirituality,
knowledge, culture and global coexistence. A
sustainable solution to this hideous and dangerous
phenomenon requires vision, serious political will
and active participation and cooperation of all
members of the human society.”
The threat of terrorism should not be
underestimated, nor should its devastating
consequences be measured only in the visible realm of
politics. Terrorism is the chronic menace of our era,
rooted in the mentality of violence, the logic of might
and the practice of injustice and discrimination. When
spirituality, ethics and justice find no room in the
realms of politics, economics and culture, and when
discrimination, marginalization, exclusion and the
application of double standards push justice aside, the
world is bound to face alienation, despair, extremism
and lawlessness. In such a climate, terrorism finds
fertile ground for growth.
The disaster in the United States is so tragic and
grave that thinkers are urgently called on to engage in
deep reflection and dialogue on its real causes. For
many years, our great thinkers have cautioned us to
avoid submission to instrumental reasoning, warning of
the threats and tragedies that it could generate.
On the other hand, some of the great thinkers of
our time have ascribed atrocities such as fascism to the
reign of mythological speculation. They have attributed
the emergence of fascism not to the expansion of
rationality but to evading rationality and succumbing to
the reign of myth.
This does not mean that we will succumb to
mythical speculation if we do not want to. We have the
choice not to negate rationality. But at the same time,
we must also combine rationality with empathy, the
mind with the heart. Neither one can be without the
other. Neither one can be neglected. If it is, it will lead
to tragedy, no matter under what pretext, religion, race,
nationalism or any other nation. The same mythical
speculation is seen in modern cult ideology, which is a
form of rationality that is reduced to instrumental
reasoning and thereby stripped of all its moral and
human aspects. Religion, tradition, philosophy and art
descend to achieving only one goal, that of political
ends.
One of the most common features of these
ideologies, which is regrettably prevalent, is the
glorification of the self and the demonization of
opposing groups and ideas. The advocates of this
ideology in the West attribute to Islam, the religion of
humanity, compassion and justice, such labels as
terrorism. In the same manner, in parts of the Islamic
world, the West is equated with suppression. Such
polarization of the world and human beings would lead
to horrifying political and security consequences for
the whole world.
The world has yet to overcome the horror and
disbelief caused by the malicious terrorist attacks of 11
September against thousands of innocent people. At the
same time, the most destructive modern weapons are
being used in one of the most deprived parts of the
world against an oppressed and dispossessed people.
Once again, history repeats its sad experience that war
triggers war.
The time is ripe for us to analyse the history and
consequences of exclusionary ways of acting, to
initiate ways to engage intellectuals from different
cultures in dialogue and to encourage the public to
embark upon learning for the sake of dialogue and
dialogue for the sake of learning and to reinforce the
art of listening as sacred and invaluable.
Angry politicians should be prevented from
taking the initiative in ongoing developments. They
should be made to yield to the judgement of wisdom
and fairness.
The American nation has experienced one of the
most brutal forms of terrorism, in which the blind
hatred of terrorists has prevented the recovery of the
bodies of the victims of the 11 September tragedy.
Today, other nations walk hand in hand with the
American nation.
Today, beyond mere rhetoric, one can see the
convergence of the ideas of the peoples of the United
States and Iran, who have also experienced, in earlier
times, the mute but brutal massacre resulting from the
use of chemical weapons. This convergence of ideas
can also be discerned among all those refugees and
displaced persons who are victims of war, suppression
and terrorism — including State and non-State
terrorism — in Afghanistan and Palestine.
30

We must have empathy for the suffering of people
everywhere: in occupied Palestine, oppressed
Afghanistan, New York, Washington or any corner of
the globe.
We shall rise to the challenge of promoting peace,
security and development among all nations on the
basis of justice, and we believe that in today’s
interconnected world, we cannot live in islands of
prosperity and progress while the rest of the world
suffers from increasing poverty, illiteracy, disease and
insecurity. Acquiescing to any act of terrorism,
anywhere in the world, is inconsistent with any
religious or ethical principle. Likewise, resorting to
violence and revenge to counter such acts could hardly
be justified because of ethical and humane
considerations. Lacing the sacred realm of religion
with violence and terror is a grave disservice to all
religions and their followers. The divine religions call
for peace, tolerance and compassion. They
unequivocally repudiate — in essence and appearance
— any thought or act of violence. I would like to quote
the late leader of the Islamic revolution, Imam
Khomeini, who said that “as followers of Islam, we
always oppose war and desire peace and tranquillity
among all States.”
Let us accept that no country in the world is
immune to terrorism. We should therefore seek
solutions at the highest possible level.
Today there is unprecedented momentum in the
world for combating terrorism, which should not be
lost. To this end, the United Nations can arrange and
guide a genuine and legitimate endeavour in the
international fight against terrorism. The Islamic
Republic of Iran is an active partner in this global
coalition and spares no effort for the success of the
international community in uprooting terrorism through
viable, just and non-discriminatory measures. By
articulating a comprehensive definition of terrorism,
the United Nations can overcome one of the major
historical hurdles to avoiding further misuse of that
term. The adoption of Security Council resolution 1373
(2001) and its effective implementation by all States
can be considered a first step for a coordinated
international campaign against terrorism. Moreover,
negotiations on the draft comprehensive convention on
terrorism, based on internationally accepted definitions
and principles, would provide an effective basis for
collective measures in this respect.
The 11 September attack indicated that the
division between centre and periphery can no longer
define the security order of the world today, for even
the most marginalized sectors might be able to inflict
blows on the biggest Powers. This development has
taken on all the more threatening dimensions in the
light of the emergence of the dangerous phenomenon
of bioterrorism.
The conflict-stricken regions of the world require
urgent and comprehensive attention. After decades of
war, insecurity and destruction, Afghanistan needs
order, law, security and stability. The ongoing military
operation in Afghanistan cannot, while inflicting
destruction and casualties, address the root causes of
the kind of terrorism that has been forced on the
defenceless people of that country. On the contrary: it
is more likely that the continuation of the current
military approach could incite sentiments that intensify
intolerance and violence in the region and the whole
world.
In the midst of the global terrorism crisis, the
world faces an intensive and severe kind of terrorism in
the Middle East. The occupation of the Palestinian
territories, the expulsion of the Palestinian people from
their homeland, the Judaization of Palestine — in
particular Al-Quds Al-Sharif — the building of illegal
settlements, the killing and terrorizing of defenceless
Palestinian civilians in their homeland, and the
destruction of historical sites, civil institutions and
residential areas are all examples of this phenomenon.
I would also like to underscore, on behalf of the
Group of 77, the significance of poverty alleviation
worldwide and the need for the support of the United
Nations. Poverty breeds violence and intolerance. The
recent slowdown in world economic growth and
development caused by the terrorist attacks further
aggravates the economic hardships of the developing
countries.
For a secure and hopeful life, the world therefore
needs innovative approaches and collective measures.
Let us therefore build a coalition for peace instead of
war and hostility. The initiative of dialogue among
civilizations is a step in this direction, and it offers a
new paradigm of interaction among nations and
cultures in a world that longs for peace and security.
Can the United Nations take the lead in devising
a programme to implement this fair and reasonable
approach and become the focus of a global coalition for
31

peace based on justice? I have every confidence in the
wisdom and the will of the Secretary-General —
illustrated, inter alia, by the publication of a book,
entitled Crossing the Divide — to define a new
paradigm of dialogue among civilizations. World
public opinion is supportive of this proposal. The
adoption of the Global Agenda for Dialogue among
Civilizations yesterday represents a beginning for the
crystallization of this common desire and will of the
global community.
The achievements of the thirty-first United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) General Conference in
establishing dialogue among civilizations as one of its
strategic objectives and in adopting the Universal
Declaration on Cultural Diversity represent yet another
serious indication of this global trend, and I wish to
pay tribute to UNESCO and its Director-General. Will
politicians and statesmen also submit to this approach,
to prevent the transformation of the clash among States
into a clash among civilizations? I am hopeful; the
future will be the judge.








"
56,2001,BEL,"﻿I have
the honour today to speak on behalf of the European
Union, which wishes, through you, Sir, to congratulate
the President on his election. That election testifies to
the esteem of the international community for his
person and his country. I commend the speed of action
and efficiency that you have shown in the face of the
tragic events of 11 September, in adapting the agenda
for the work of this Assembly.
I would also like to associate with this tribute the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan.
Mr. Secretary-General, your re-election had already
drawn attention to the unanimous appreciation of the
Member States for your exceptional qualities as a
manager, politician and humanist. The Nobel
Committee paid an even wider tribute by awarding you
the Nobel Peace Prize. The United Nations itself, here
at your side, was also a recipient of this message of
hope from a world in a state of shock, appealing to the
United Nations to remain at the centre of the
international community’s action for peace and
development.
It was the fundamental values constituting the
foundation of the United Nations that were attacked in
so cowardly a manner right here in New York on 11
September, when our host country, several thousands of
its citizens and nationals of over 60 countries were the
37

victims of a barbaric act of aggression for which no
justification can be accepted.
That attack, by its enormity, has opened our eyes
to the worldwide threat that terrorism has become. It is
our open, democratic, tolerant and multicultural
societies that were attacked through the United States.
The terrorist threat must be hunted down in each of our
countries, in our various regional organizations and, at
the world level, through the United Nations.
The European Union has most categorically
condemned the 11 September attacks, and the fight
against terrorism is now, more than ever before, one of
our top objectives. The Union has declared its total
solidarity with the United States. It has reaffirmed its
unreserved support for the military action undertaken
in the name of legitimate self-defence, in conformity
with the Charter of the United Nations and Security
Council resolution 1368 (2001).
On 21 September, an Extraordinary European
Council adopted an action plan for an unprecedented
campaign against terrorism. This plan contains a
number of specific measures intended to enhance
judicial and police cooperation, including the
introduction of a European arrest warrant. It also
includes measures to put an end to the financing of
terrorism and to improve air security. The European
Council acknowledged that the fight against terrorism
requires greater participation by the Union in the
efforts of the international community to prevent and
stabilize regional conflicts. By developing the
Common Foreign and Security Policy and bringing the
European Security and Defence Policy into operation
as soon as possible, the Union will be at its most
effective.
At the global level also, fresh impetus must be
provided to the fight against terrorism. Naturally, the
United Nations has a central role to play in developing
a coordinated and diversified strategy. We warmly
welcome the major steps that have already been taken
to that end. The most remarkable of these was the
adoption of resolution 1373 (2001) by the Security
Council on 28 September. The European Union and its
member States are already committed to rapid
enactment of the measures needed for its
implementation. We call upon all countries to
cooperate actively with the follow-up system set up by
the Security Council, and we reiterate our readiness to
provide aid in that connection to any countries that
may have technical difficulties in meeting the
requirements.
It is also essential that all States ratify without
delay the 12 conventions on combating terrorism and
apply all of their provisions. The International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism is a decisive aspect of international action
and needs to be speedily signed and ratified.
Lastly, the European Union welcomes the recent
progress made in negotiating a comprehensive
convention on international terrorism, on the basis of a
draft submitted by India. The remaining difficulties
must now be dealt with as soon as possible so that this
instrument can be ready for signing early next year.
The efforts we are making to combat terrorism
must also form part of overall efforts to build a better
world, a world in which human dignity is sacrosanct, in
which human rights and fundamental freedoms are
fully respected.
The promotion and protection of human rights
and an attachment to the principles of democracy and
the rule of law are essential components of the
European Union’s Common Foreign and Security
Policy and of its development, cooperation and
external relations. The European Union will actively
pursue its work on consolidating human rights and
fundamental freedoms, with particular insistence on the
universal, indivisible and interdependent nature of all
human rights. It will continue to support efforts by the
Secretary-General to integrate human rights into
United Nations activities at all levels and in all forums,
and to cooperate with all United Nations human rights
machinery.
The European Union welcomes the imminent
establishment of the much-awaited International
Criminal Court. The Union sees this as being of
paramount importance and urges all States that have
not yet done so to accede to the Rome Statute as soon
as possible. More than ever before, we need a universal
and permanent court capable of sanctioning the most
serious violations of international humanitarian law
and human rights, thereby contributing to peace and
security in the world. It is vital that the United Nations
give effective support to the establishment of the
Court.
Following the tragedy of 11 September, the
special session of the General Assembly on the 10-year
38

review of the World Summit for Children had to be
postponed. However, until it is held, we need to keep
up the momentum developed in the preparatory
discussions. We must continue to integrate the specific
dimension of the child into our actions and strive to
ensure that every child’s life is free from terror, the
horrors of war, abuse and exploitation, hunger and
poverty.
The European Union is resolved to continue the
fight against all forms of discrimination and violence
against women, and to ensure that all countries take
strong measures to apply the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women. Women must be able to enjoy their human
rights in full, on an equal footing with men. Girls must
have the same opportunities as boys, particularly in
education and access to social services. The European
Union insists also that there be equal rights to property,
credit facilities and social services, including
reproductive health services. It is in the interest of
everyone that women be able to participate fully in
economic and political life at all levels.
The Union stresses the importance of
implementing Security Council resolution 1325 (2000)
and the special attention that must be given to the
participation and full association of women on an equal
footing in all efforts aimed at maintaining and
promoting peace and security.
We must also vigorously pursue the crucial fight
against racist and discriminatory tendencies and
intolerance, which are daily realities throughout the
world. The World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
has, I believe, shown us the way forward. It has also
enabled us to advance our ways of thinking about the
causes and origins of racism and, above all, to view our
past in a new way. What matters now is that we find
the will to close the darkest chapters of our history so
that we can build a new relationship based on mutual
respect, solidarity and partnership.
The terrible humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan is
gripping the attention of the international community
just as much as the political, diplomatic, military and
economic aspects of the situation in that country. This
is the first time that the international community has
adopted such a global approach to an armed conflict.
We are convinced that this is the best — if not the
only — way to ensure effective resolution of the crisis.
The coordination of aid efforts, primarily on the ground
and as part of the range of actions undertaken by the
United Nations, remains essential.
Emergency humanitarian aid to Afghanistan is an
absolute priority for the European Union, which has
undertaken to mobilize an aid package of over 320
million euros as soon as possible. The Union expresses
its concern about the difficulties of access, as well as of
delivering humanitarian assistance, in Afghanistan. It
supports the efforts of the United Nations specialized
agencies, the International Committee of the Red Cross
and all humanitarian organizations in seeking practical
and flexible solutions. It also calls on the countries of
the region to facilitate, by all possible means,
humanitarian operations to deal with new influxes of
Afghan refugees.
The European Union recognizes the vital role of
the United Nations in the search for a peace plan for
Afghanistan. It intends to support the initiatives of the
Secretary-General and his Special Representative and
to make a constructive contribution, with regard to
both the search for an internal political solution and to
a plan for rebuilding the country. The Union also
stresses the importance of the regional dimension of
the stabilization of Afghanistan.
We must make adequate contributions to the
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs so
as to ensure that it can function efficiently. The
European Union attaches particular importance to aid
to persons displaced within their countries. We
therefore welcome the fact that a unit has been
established within the Secretariat to cater to their
specific needs. Following the recent attacks against
humanitarian aid personnel, the European Union can
only call once again for the strengthening of
arrangements, particularly those of a legal and financial
nature, for guaranteeing the safety and security of
humanitarian aid workers and United Nations workers
in general.
Now more than ever, disarmament and non-
proliferation constitute the cornerstone of any peace
and security structure, and must therefore be subject to
binding multilateral norms. It is against that
background that we wish to strengthen the non-
proliferation regime, promote the rapid entry into force
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and
reinforce the biological and toxin weapons Convention.
We must also combat the proliferation of ballistic
39

missiles and the illicit trade in light weapons and
continue to work for the complete elimination of anti-
personnel mines.
With regard to peacekeeping, the United Nations
has shown in the past year that it is better equipped and
better organized than it has been in recent times. By
way of example, I should like to mention the
operations in East Timor, Eritrea and Sierra Leone.
Progress has thus already been made on the ground in
implementing the recommendations of the Brahimi
report. But much remains to be done, and the European
Union will continue to provide its active support for
improving the capabilities of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations and advocating that the
Organization be given the resources that it needs to
enable it effectively to discharge its increasingly
complex responsibilities.
A comprehensive and long-term approach is
required in order to resolve differences of opinion,
consolidate peace and prevent a resurgence of conflict.
The European Union, which is currently establishing
its own military and civil crisis-management capability,
is actively engaged in strengthening its cooperation
with the United Nations and other international
organizations in the area of conflict prevention, crisis
management, humanitarian aid, post-conflict
reconstruction and long-term development.
The Balkans, a region so close to the countries of
the European Union, remains at the centre of the
Union’s external activities. We resolutely maintain our
commitment to contribute to building a region of
security, prosperity and democracy there, where multi-
ethnic societies can be free to flourish. Progress has
been remarkable and encouraging, but unfortunately in
many cases the situation remains fragile. The
international community must remain vigilant and must
not let extremists, of whatever kind, use violence to
destroy the stabilization work already carried out.
The situation in the Middle East is worsening.
The lack of any political perspective naturally
encourages continued confrontation and plays into the
hands of extremists. Defiance, fear and resentment
radicalize people’s mindsets. The European Union calls
on Israelis and Palestinians, while there is still time,
immediately to resume the peace process, without
preconditions, on the basis of the Mitchell report. It
calls on the Israeli authorities to immediately withdraw
their forces from Palestinian-administered areas. It
calls on the Palestinian Authority to do its utmost to
arrest those responsible for violence against Israel.
It is necessary to preserve what has been achieved
so far in the peace process: the principles of the Madrid
Conference, in particular the principle of land for
peace, as well as Security Council resolutions 242
(1967) and 338 (1973) and the agreements signed by
the parties, which have already led to real results on the
ground and to progress on the basis of earlier
negotiations. The European Union calls on both parties
to do their utmost in the political, security, economic
and social areas in order to get back to the negotiating
table, without preconditions, with the objective of
realizing the legitimate aspirations of the peoples of the
region, as set out at the Madrid Conference of 1991.
For the Palestinians, the establishment of a viable
democratic State and an end to the occupation of their
territory is essential. The Israelis must have the right to
live in peace and security within internationally
recognized borders. The European Union also recalls
that the search for a comprehensive and lasting peace
in the region requires due account to be taken of the
Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese aspects of the
conflict. The same principles should apply in the
resolution of those situations.
It is primarily for the parties themselves to try to
find peace through negotiating all elements relating to
permanent status. This will include finding a viable and
just solution to the particularly complex issues of
Jerusalem and the refugees, as well as those of the
economic support for the Palestinian people.
The European Union, in close cooperation with
the United States of America and the other partners
involved, reaffirms its willingness to work for a final
settlement to the conflict. We believe that it is now a
matter of urgency to develop an initiative to strongly
urge the parties to resume their political dialogue.
The European Union finds the status quo in
Cyprus unacceptable. We express our disappointment
at the unjustified decision of the Turkish side to decline
the Secretary-General’s invitation to pursue talks. We
continue to support the Secretary-General’s endeavours
towards a comprehensive and lasting settlement of the
Cyprus question in accordance with the relevant
Security Council resolutions.
The scale of the tragedies on the African
continent demands resolute action on our part, at all
levels, to address the direct structural causes of those
40

conflicts. Conflicts in Africa have become increasingly
complex and their cross-border effects increasingly
destructive. The crises in the Great Lakes region of
West Africa, in Zimbabwe and in the Horn of Africa
require increased vigilance on the part of the
Organization. Those crises also show the need for a
comprehensive and integrated international approach.
We gave an enthusiastic welcome to the launch of the
New African Initiative at the Lusaka summit of the
Organization of African Unity. The European Union
has stated its willingness to respond and has already
entered into a dialogue at the highest level with the
African Union.
At the Millennium Summit, we pledged together
to attain a set of development objectives. That is an
ambitious project which involves, inter alia, good
governance in each country and at the international
level. The Union underlines the need for strengthened
partnership between rich countries and poor countries
to achieve the development objectives of the
Millennium Declaration. That partnership entails
obligations and joint but varied efforts on the part of all
countries.
First of all, we must make every effort to
eradicate poverty. New, concrete commitments were
made at the third United Nations Conference on Least
Developed Countries, held at Brussels last May. The
European Union committed itself to untying aid, to
opening up its markets through the “everything but
arms” initiative and to the full financing of the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. It is
now a question of finalizing the follow-up mechanisms
of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries. The European Union will also continue to
give priority to the development of Africa.
Two major international conferences will give us
an opportunity to take up the challenges and achieve
the principal objectives of the Millennium Declaration.
At the International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held next March at Monterrey,
Mexico, we shall focus on improving cooperation
among all development actors, and on using resources
more effectively and better mobilizing them.
At the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, to be held at Johannesburg in October
2002, we wish to promote the sustainable use and
management and the protection of the natural resources
that are the underpinning of economic and social
development. We wish also to integrate action on the
environment and poverty, to ensure that globalization
serves the needs of sustainable development, and to
promote better ways of managing public affairs and
participation. The European Union would like to
explore with its partners the possibility of achieving at
the Summit a global pact on sustainable development.
Such a pact should contain commitments both from
Governments and from other actors. A global pact
should lead to concrete action to improve the
implementation of sustainable development policies.
We hope that United Nations Member States will
without delay commit themselves to be represented at
Monterrey and at Johannesburg at the highest possible
political level.
The United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change was one of the major results of the
1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development. We welcome the progress made at Bonn
and at Marrakesh, and we undertake speedily to ratify
the Kyoto Protocol.
We have also just reached an intergovernmental
consensus at the highest level on the strategy needed to
halt the appalling global AIDS pandemic. That was a
major step forward, but the urgent and tragic nature of
the problem demand greater ambition. We will actively
contribute to the creation of the new Global Fund to
combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, and we
will play an active role in all the other processes that
emerged from last June’s special session so that the
Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS is put into
practice through concrete measures.
Among other challenges, the demographic
changes that lie ahead are of particular interest to the
European Union. The second World Assembly on
Ageing, to be held at Madrid in April 2002, will be an
opportunity for us to work together to build a society
for all ages.
The Millennium Summit enabled us to tackle, at
the highest level, the major challenges facing the world
community. We must now turn our attention to the
process of following up the Declaration adopted by
heads of State or Government with all due regard for
the lofty and balanced aims of that cardinal text. For
that, we need reliable data and depend on the existing
follow-up machinery and processes and on the
concerted efforts of the various actors in the
41

international community who can help us to achieve
those objectives.
We must also continue reform of the United
Nations system as a whole, including the specialized
agencies and the operational funds and programmes.
The strengthening of the Security Council and its
comprehensive reform in all its aspects should be
pursued with determination. If we want a Security
Council capable of responding even more effectively to
the major challenges of the moment, we must intensify
our efforts.
Looking beyond the tremendous and growing
complexity of our actions at the international level, our
debate should highlight this basic truth: if we want to
build a world made more peaceful by respect for the
law, solidarity and tolerance, we must strengthen our
cohesiveness in the face of the new challenges before
us, and also step up our efforts to promote human
rights, eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable
development.
In this forum of the United Nations, we reply to
the messengers of destruction with our common ideal,
which will be stronger than hatred and division among
mankind. That edifice, whose foundations are set in our
spirits and in our hearts, will be unassailable.
"
56,2001,HND,"﻿At this juncture, when humanity is faced with
various challenges, it is essential that the United
Nations receive the broadest and most firm support as
it plays the role of coordinator of our collective efforts.
The 2001 Nobel Peace Prize, awarded to the
Secretary-General and to the United Nations as a
whole, is a further reaffirmation of trust in this
universal Organization, which was created to banish
violence and to further human development. We
warmly congratulate the Secretary-General and the
officials and employees of the Organization.
The international turmoil brought about by the
terrorist attack of 11 September against the people and
the Government of the United States of America, as
well as against the highest values of the civilized
world, has radically altered the way in which we think
about international security. Our own people are not
immune from this new reality. Buried under the rubble
of the World Trade Center are the remains of
Hondurans who had come to this country to turn their
hopes into reality. The President of the United States,
in his statement this morning, referred to the many
countries whose nationals perished in the twin towers.
It is, indeed, an international phenomenon.
The Presidents of the Central American countries,
at the invitation of the President of Honduras, Mr.
Carlos Flores, met in Honduras on 19 September and
adopted specific joint steps to be taken at the
subregional level to combat terrorism. The purpose is
to contribute, within our modest capacities, to that end,
which is synonymous with the maintenance of
international peace and security. Those steps include
controls on migration and financial flows and
intelligence sharing in the framework of the
Organization of American States and the United
Nations.
The Government of Honduras notes with deep
concern the escalating violence in the Middle East. In
the light of the circumstances at the time, we supported
the establishment of the State of Israel. Today, we want
to use this international forum, which plays a critical
role in the search for a solution in the region, to
reaffirm the right of Israel to exist as a sovereign, free
and secure States. We also support recognition of the
inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination and to the establishment of a Palestinian
State. We are convinced that that constitutes a suitable
formula for real peace in the Middle East.
In his introductory remarks today, the Secretary-
General expressed his grief and revulsion at the
cowardly acts of international terrorism. He also wisely
noted that none of the other problems before us has
become any less urgent. In addition to terrorism, other
grave dangers threaten peace and the well-being of
individuals. Among them is HIV/AIDS, which was the
focus of a special session of the General Assembly,
held from 25 to 27 June 2001. That collective
endeavour led to the establishment of a global
HIV/AIDS and health fund to support joint measures
against the pandemic. The special session raised the
level of understanding of the scope of the pandemic,
which goes beyond health, because it also has a social
and economic impact.
The June session forged links of cooperation
among nations with a view to sharing experience and
solutions in the fight against HIV/AIDS. In particular,
it is essential to reduce the cost of drugs: in Honduras,
as in many other countries, most of the infected and
their families cannot afford the necessary treatment.
Brazil’s agreements with pharmaceutical companies in
this field are worthy of emulation. This should be a
goal in dealing with diseases that hit the developing
countries hardest.
38

In Honduras, we are encouraged by the fact that
the rate at which the virus is spreading has slowed.
Forecasts two years ago overestimated today’s levels of
infection – although these continue to be high. The
United Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific
Organization is helping us to set up a regional AIDS
prevention centre at San Pedro Sula to serve the entire
Central American region.
Extreme poverty is another major threat to the
peace and welfare of individuals. Here too, the United
Nations deserves the support of the entire international
community in helping overcome the causes of extreme
poverty through strategic measures aimed at offering
opportunities to sectors that are now excluded so that
they can enjoy a decent life and be a productive part of
their societies. That does not mean only vocational and
technological training; ignoring the hardship caused by
widespread illiteracy would amount to condemning 70
per cent of the world’s population to wretchedness. The
United Nations has come forward with valuable
international initiatives.
For its part, Honduras has adopted a poverty
reduction strategy in which education plays a
fundamental role. This grew out of a national
consensus which in turn holds the key to country’s
recovery and transformation in the aftermath of
hurricane Mitch.
The United Nations must promote fundamental
democratic freedoms, including participation and
legitimate representation in decision-making processes.
Here the Organization has played an ever-growing role
in facilitating dialogue and promoting consensus. In
recent years, Honduras has held a national dialogue in
a variety of fields of vital importance for the nation’s
future. The results have been promising. In addition to
formulating a national-reconstruction plan to overcome
the unprecedented damage caused by hurricane Mitch
three years ago, the Government of President Carlos
Flores, in one of the broadest consultative processes in
our history as a republic, has, together with our people,
adopted a 15-year strategy for poverty reduction. That
is the first plan of its kind, arrived at through a national
consensus, to be adopted by my country.
Alleviating poverty, overcoming educational
backwardness, responding to epidemics and reducing
our vulnerability to natural phenomena: all are linked
to economic output and to its intelligent distribution.
We are thus aware that it is not only underpinnings in
the form of programmes that are needed; fairness and
justice in international trade are also required. To be
consistent with the rhetoric of international trade, we
need better access to major markets. Agricultural
products of developed countries must no longer be so
heavily subsidized, so that the products of those of us
who are handicapped by our level of development can
be more competitive in line with the principles of that
rhetoric. What is good for some should be good for all.
We need a level playing field that takes into account
asymmetries and conditions on all sides.
Political maturity in Member States is intimately
bound up with how well those States meet their
international obligations. Peace, tranquillity, the ability
to cooperate and interdependence are all intertwined
with how seriously international relations are
conducted. The much-quoted third paragraph of the
preamble of the Charter of the United Nations says that
we, the peoples of the United Nations, are determined
“to establish conditions under which justice and
respect for the obligations arising from treaties
and other sources of international law can be
maintained”.
Indeed, adherence to the principle of pacta sunt
servanda and other sources of international obligations
is a factor for building trust among States. Its absence
poses a threat to the Organization’s guiding spirit and
to the principles that are its pillars.
The President of Mexico, His Excellency Mr.
Vicente Fox, has invited the States of the Caribbean to
attend a conference to promote the implementation of
their commitments on maritime limits under the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. As a State
party to that Convention, my country supports the
Mexican Government’s initiative. Moreover, on a
bilateral level, we are pursuing in good faith and in
conformity with international law the early conclusion
of treaties on maritime limits with our Caribbean Sea
neighbours. We applaud the efforts now under way
under a special process, sponsored by the Organization
of American States, by our neighbours Belize and
Guatemala towards a final solution to the century-long
territorial dispute. Such a solution should include, to
the extent possible and with the participation of the
three States directly concerned — Belize, Guatemala
and Honduras — the adoption of stable legal
agreements on cooperation in the Gulf of Honduras.
39

Honduras believes that disputes are an integral
part of inter-State relations. What is alarming is not
that there should be differences between States; rather,
it is the attitude with which they are approached.
Similarly, we note that domestic political concerns
should not be allowed to interfere with shared interests
in subregional integration. To allow our domestic
political goals to affect our integration process would
mean endangering the future of integration itself, and
thus the future of the shared interests of the Central
American countries.
We have a united Organization, all of whose
various bodies and specialized agencies are working
ever more closely together in pursuit of specific
objectives. This is a time of extraordinary importance
for the international community and hence for the
United Nations and all of its Member States.
Accordingly, we must work ever harder to promote the
values of peace and human development that we all
share. In this endeavour, all countries, small and large,
must abide by the guidelines which we, the majority,
have agreed upon in order to save our planet from
climate change, whose damaging effects are making
themselves felt everywhere.
At this juncture the Organization should continue
and expand its leadership and allow all peaceful
international players, including the Republic of China
on Taiwan, to participate in the joint combat against the
renewed threats to peace, security and the welfare of all
nations. All of this applies to the international arena.
At the national level, organization at the local
community level is essential in order to dispel
uncertainty, overcome indifference and strengthen
human solidarity based on reason. This was the case
during the recent floods along the Atlantic coast of
Honduras. As a result of the preparation and prevention
programmes promoted by the Administration of
President Flores, the loss of life was minimal, and
emergency support services operated effectively and in
a timely manner. This was because the local
communities had learned how to prevent most of the
damage caused by such natural phenomena.
The lesson is clear: at the national and
international levels, we must try to organize our work
as individuals and as countries and to coordinate those
efforts in order to reduce our vulnerability in all areas,
be they environmental, economic, political or security-
related, on the basis of the principles of a culture of
peace, which we have agreed upon together.
In a few months’ time, President Flores will
conclude his term of office. He will leave behind a
stable country with transparency restored, the rule of
law strengthened and a macroeconomic administration
recognized by the international community — a
country that has recorded positive economic growth
despite having suffered the greatest natural disaster in
our history.
I conclude this address — the last to be delivered
by the present Government of Honduras in the General
Assembly’s general debate — by conveying the
greetings and appreciation of the people of Honduras
and of the Government of President Flores to the
international community and to all of the peoples who
have stood by us during the most difficult moments of
our history. Those have included, as we will all recall,
the terrible hurricane of 1998 and its negative
consequences, which have affected us ever since. We
Hondurans have renewed our faith in international
solidarity and have grown stronger in our conviction
that the destiny of our nation and of our planet hinges
on what we are doing today to build a future for our
nations."
56,2001,GIN,"﻿I
should like to associate my country and delegation with
the expressions of sympathy for the great suffering
endured by the city of New York following the crash of
the American Airlines plane yesterday. To the
Government of the United States, our host city and all
the bereaved families, I address the condolences of the
Government and people of Guinea.
A year ago in this Hall, the great leaders of the
world, in a unanimous surge, committed themselves to
thinking together about the role of this Organization,
the United Nations, in the twenty-first century, and
about ways of achieving its objectives fully, with a
view to constructing together a world of peace,
progress and solidarity. The historic Declaration which
emerged from the Millennium Summit emphasized the
need to open a new era of international relations.
It was when the international community was
preparing to review the implementation of the
recommendations and decisions of that Summit that
unprecedented terrorist acts cast a shadow over our
hopes. These acts, to which the United States fell
victim on 11 September 2001, profoundly shocked the
conscience of all peoples. The barbarity and violence
of these terrorist attacks, and also the threat of
bioterrorism, are serious attacks on international peace
and security.
My delegation would like once again to express
its sympathy to the American people, especially the
families of the many victims. The Republic of Guinea
condemns those intolerable acts and believes that it
should be the concern of all States to combat and
eradicate terrorism. We firmly support any measures
aimed at eliminating the bases of international
terrorism and fully associate ourselves with the
international community in its global response to that
scourge.
The fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly
is thus taking place within the context of a new and
alarming situation for international peace and security.
My delegation is therefore very pleased to see you, Sir,
presiding over the Assembly during this session. We
are convinced that your wealth of experience, as well
as your great diplomatic skill, will ensure the success
of our discussions. I would like to assure you of the
cooperation and support of the delegation of Guinea.
I should also like to thank your predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the excellent work accomplished
under his presidency.
17

My delegation would like once again to convey
the warm congratulations of General Lansana Conté,
President of the Republic of Guinea, to our brother,
Kofi Annan, on his well-deserved re-election as the
head of our Organization. The unanimous tribute that
has been paid to him brings honour to the whole of the
African continent and bears witness to his great
qualities and his commitment to achieving the
objectives of the United Nations. The Nobel Peace
Prize recently awarded jointly to him and to the
Organization is eloquent testimony to that commitment
and an encouragement to continue to act in the service
of peace and understanding among peoples.
The award of the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize to the
United Nations is, without doubt, a recognition of its
role in the implementation of its objectives — the
maintenance of international peace and security,
development and cooperation among nations.
Increasingly, the Organization is proving to be the
necessary crucible for dialogue among States.
However, almost all Members earnestly desire the
strengthening and improvement of the entire system.
While reaffirming its support for the reform
process initiated by the Secretary-General, my country,
the Republic of Guinea, would like to emphasize the
need to strengthen the principal organs of the
Organization. We welcome the actions taken by your
predecessor, Sir, to streamline the working methods of
the General Assembly so as to give it fresh dynamism.
We hope that that impetus will continue.
My delegation would also like to reaffirm its
support for restructuring the Security Council, in its
membership as well as its working methods, so as to
enable it to better protect the interests of all Member
States. I should like to take this opportunity to express,
on behalf of my Government, our gratitude to all States
for the unanimous support that enabled Guinea to be
elected a non-permanent member of the Security
Council for 2002 and 2003. During its mandate, the
Republic of Guinea will make every effort to contribute
actively to the maintenance of peace and security in the
world.
Peace and security continue to be threatened in
many parts of the world. In the Middle East,
intolerance and intransigence have led to a dangerous
escalation of violence, which, if not controlled in time,
could cause the whole region to go up in flames. The
Republic of Guinea would like to appeal to all the
parties to exercise greater restraint so as to facilitate a
resumption of the peace process. My country supports
the full application of the recommendations of the
Mitchell commission and the implementation of
effective follow-up mechanisms. Dispatching
international observers could contribute to ending the
violence and returning peace to all the peoples there.
However, the indifference of the international
community and its failure to take action could, in the
long term, prove to be prejudicial to security in the
Middle East.
My delegation condemns all acts of violence,
which can lead only to a worsening of the situation. In
the light of the serious events that have taken place in
recent months, the international community must do all
that it can to lead all parties to accept a ceasefire and to
resume the peace process. Arms must give way to
dialogue, which should lead to a just, equitable and
lasting peace. The legitimate rights of the Palestinian
people should be respected. Likewise, the existence
and security of Israel must be guaranteed.
One year ago, my country became the victim of
aggression committed by rebel groups. That barbaric
aggression caused great loss of life and material
damage. My Government would like to express its full
appreciation for the subsequent role played by the
United Nations in adopting appropriate measures to
create conditions conducive to the restoration of peace
and stability in the subregion. My delegation would
also like to take this opportunity to thank all the
individuals and States that contributed to the adoption
and implementation of those measures. One year later,
the fact that a dialogue has been initiated by civil
society in the three countries concerned — Sierra
Leone, Liberia and Guinea — means that we have
reached an important stage in the search for peace.
The Republic of Guinea, which has always shown
its determination to maintain and strengthen friendship,
brotherhood and cooperation with all African countries
in general and neighbouring countries in particular,
would like to reaffirm to the Assembly its readiness to
make the Mano River Union a model of economic
integration, social cohesion and political stability.
However, relaunching the activities of the Union
will depend upon respect for the relevant provisions of
the Non-aggression and Security Cooperation Treaty
signed by the three countries and of the 15th Protocol
to the Mano River Declaration, signed at Conakry on 8
18

May 2000. That is what is required for productive
dialogue among the three countries.
In the framework of the process of re-establishing
confidence and dialogue among the countries members
of the Mano River Union, meetings have been held at
the ministerial level in Monrovia, Freetown and
Conakry. Those meetings made it possible to discuss
important problems relating to the activities of armed
groups in the subregion, the situation of refugees,
measures to rebuild confidence, peace and security, and
the need to reactivate the various bodies of the Mano
River Union.
My Government welcomes the encouraging
developments in Sierra Leone, particularly the
programme for disarmament, demobilization and
reintegration (DDR). The DDR programme that has
been implemented will have to be consolidated if it is
to lead to the true demobilization of all the
Revolutionary United Front combatants and if the
mistakes made in Liberia are to be avoided. In Liberia,
the restoration of peace after 10 years of civil war has
not, unfortunately, been accompanied by a true DDR
programme or by post-conflict financial support.
I would like to express regret with regard to the
inadequate results of the Paris conference convened to
deal with the problem of Sierra Leone, and to call on
the international community to provide the necessary
material and financial support to guarantee lasting
peace in that country. My delegation bases its appeal
on the relevant recommendations contained in the
Brahimi report, which have been accepted by the
principal organs of the Organization. The Republic of
Guinea will continue to support the efforts of the
United Nations and the Economic Community of West
African States in restoring peace, security and national
reconciliation in Sierra Leone.
The question of refugees is still a matter of great
concern for my Government. The enormous economic,
social, environmental and security impact of the
continued presence of hundreds of thousands of Sierra
Leonean and Liberian refugees continues to impose a
heavy burden on the economic and social life of my
country. The situation of the refugees is a matter of
great concern for the international community at a time
when rebel attacks against my country are being
carried out, as the countries hosting refugees are the
main target of the aggressors. Following this
aggression, the Government took appropriate measures,
in cooperation with the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, to relocate refugees
in zones far from the borders in order to ensure their
security.
The Secretary-General’s report on strengthening
of the coordination of emergency humanitarian
assistance amply describes the context of humanitarian
assistance and the difficulties to be overcome,
particularly in complex emergency situations.
We welcome the missions undertaken in the
subregion of West Africa by various United Nations
bodies, as well as the conclusions they reached. While
the resolution of most issues identified by those
missions requires an integrated approach, it is
nonetheless true that problems peculiar to certain
countries require particular attention. With respect to
Guinea, a victim of the consequences of the conflicts in
the subregion, it would be desirable for the
international community to provide greater support. In
that regard, I wish to reiterate the appeal to convene a
conference on solidarity with Guinea in order to help it
address the consequences of the prolonged presence of
refugees on its territory. I would stress that this appeal
of the Guinean Government is supported by the United
Nations inter-agency mission that recently visited our
country.
Before I conclude on this topic, I wish to
welcome the proposal to create a United Nations office
for West Africa, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Fall mission report. The
creation of such a body would demonstrate the
Organization’s clear interest in making the West
African region a zone of peace, security and
cooperation. My country will spare no effort in
cooperating fully with that office.
How can we discuss the conflicts in Africa
without highlighting the links between the illegal
exploitation of natural resources, the traffic in weapons
and the perpetuation of conflict? The reports of the
various groups of experts established by the Security
Council are edifying on this subject. In Sierra Leone,
Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
these links have clearly shown the involvement, in
addition to rebel groups, of certain authorities in that
illegal activity.
My Government therefore fully supports the
actions of the Security Council to impose sanctions
against any Government or group involved in the
19

pillaging of a country’s natural resources, in
accordance with the relevant provisions of international
law. The Republic of Guinea feels that if energetic
deterrent measures are not taken against the
perpetrators of such crimes, which are emerging as a
new kind of threat to peace, the entire African
continent may once again fall victim to conflict.
With regard to the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, my country calls for scrupulous respect for the
Lusaka Agreement and for all pertinent Security
Council resolutions, and in particular for the
withdrawal of foreign troops, safeguarding the integrity
of Congolese territory and the pursuit of the inter-
Congolese dialogue.
In the Western Sahara, my country welcomes the
efforts of the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General.
We are following with great interest the new initiatives
under way to find an acceptable solution to the crisis.
The phenomenon of globalization, characteristic
of international life today, calls for greater attention
from our States. My delegation is aware of the
necessary interdependence of nations and wishes once
again to stress that there can be no shared destiny
without a minimum of justice and solidarity in
international relations. We must work together to make
international economic relations more human and to
eradicate poverty.
There is no need here to point out that poverty,
destitution and illiteracy, which are unfortunately the
lot of a large majority of nations, provide fertile ground
for the propagation of the extremism and fanaticism
that, regrettably, underlie terrorist tendencies
throughout the world. The eradication of poverty
should be the objective of all countries in strengthening
the bases of lasting peace and security in the world.
Allow me to reiterate the appeal to the rich
countries to listen more closely to the poorer nations
and to support them in their development efforts. In
this respect, I renew the appeal for the adoption of a
better approach to the question of the debt of African
countries, for appropriate payment for raw materials
and for an increase in official development assistance.
On another level, the Marrakesh Agreement
establishing the World Trade Organization (WTO)
sought to institute an equitable multilateral trade
system with special reference to the particular situation
of the least developed countries. It is regrettable to note
today, however, that the least developed countries are
being increasingly marginalized in the globalization
process and that their share of the world trade market is
only 0.4 per cent.
The Republic of Guinea hopes that this trend will
be reversed and that decisions to that end will be taken
at the fourth WTO Ministerial Conference in Doha.
These decisions will have to address, inter alia, the
issue of the implementation of WTO accords, the
consolidation of special and differentiated treatment set
forth in the various WTO agreements, consolidated
market access for the products of the least developed
countries to the markets of the developed countries,
and access to essential drugs for the poorest
populations of the world that are particularly
vulnerable to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. I
also welcome the People’s Republic of China’s
accession to full membership of the WTO and reiterate
the support of the Guinean Government for the position
positing a single China.
In addition, we would like to see the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
in March in Mexico, become an opportunity for all
parties to agree on solutions promoting sustainable
development for all members of the international
community, in particular the developing countries and
especially those on the African continent.
In stressing the interdependence of
environmental, economic and social factors, my
delegation feels that the forthcoming World Summit on
Sustainable Development, to be held in South Africa,
should encourage the financing of projects. My
delegation urges greater involvement by the
international financial institutions in the search for
ways to promote international cooperation for
development. In the framework of operational activities
for development, the funds and programmes of the
United Nations must more than ever harmonize and
stress their interaction on the African continent so as to
allow it to rise above conflict and underdevelopment.
I also take this opportunity to appeal to the
international community to give special attention to the
New African Initiative, adopted at the recent Assembly
of Heads of State and Government of the Organization
of African Unity, held in Lusaka in July, in order to
help Africa to participate actively in the world
economy and international political life and thus to
20

escape exclusion from a planet undergoing full-scale
globalization.
The United Nations was born last century. It
continues to exist in this new century. This is a source
of satisfaction to humanity. It is therefore essential that
we return to the ideals on which the Organization was
founded and that we give it the means to achieve a
world of peace, progress, solidarity and concord. The
achievement of such a world is possible if we want it.
Let us work together to make the noble ideals
contained in the Millennium Declaration a reality so
that we may lay the foundations of a planetary village
free of threats to the survival of mankind, such as the
scourge of war, poverty, injustice and intolerance. I can
solemnly assure the Assembly that my country will
cooperate to achieve that end.



"
56,2001,BRB,"﻿I join with other
delegations in congratulating Mr. Han Seung-soo on his
election to chair the proceedings of the General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. I also take this
opportunity to express my deep satisfaction at the
award of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize to the United
Nations and to Secretary-General Kofi Annan. It is a
well-deserved vote of confidence in the Secretary-
General’s leadership as well as recognition of the
pivotal role being played by the United Nations in an
era of immense challenge for the international
community during these early years of the twenty-first
century. We are greatly reassured that his firm guidance
will continue for a further term to shape the direction
of the Organization.
At this time of renewed sadness for the people of
New York and of the Dominican Republic, may I also
offer my deepest condolences to the families and
friends of those who lost their lives in Monday’s tragic
crash of American Airlines flight 587.
For all of us, this year’s journey to New York to
address the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session
stands in stark contrast to the comfortable annual
routine we have grown to appreciate. We come instead
to a city behind barricades, a people traumatized and
bewildered, a mood of foreboding and uncertainty on
the streets and in these corridors. The horror of
terrorism — one that has scarred innocent lives for
decades in the Middle East, in Northern Ireland and
other parts of Europe, in Asia, in Africa and in Latin
America — has now landed on these shores with a fury
and intensity that few of us would have thought
possible.
The Government of Barbados has been explicit
and unequivocal in its condemnation of the terrorist
attacks of 11 September and has pledged to cooperate
fully with the international community in the sustained
effort to respond to this global threat. No cause or
grievance can ever justify the use of violence as a
means of settling disputes or legitimize the taking of
innocent lives. The use of terrorism is incompatible
with the ideals of the United Nations and cannot be
allowed to prevail.
Barbados shares America’s grief, for we have lost
five proud and hard-working citizens to this senseless
carnage. We share America’s bewilderment and
disbelief, for our citizens, too, have experienced that
sense of violation and loss of innocence that comes
with an unprecedented terrorist strike. Twenty-five
years ago, on 6 October 1976, the unthinkable
happened to Barbados with the terrorist downing of a
Cubana Airlines flight just outside our territorial
waters. Although the masterminds of that attack were
identified and apprehended, they were never punished
for their crime, but were instead encouraged to remain
actively engaged in their campaign of terror. We share
America’s sense of outrage and determination to bring
the perpetrators of the 11 September attacks to justice.
We must also insist that there be zero tolerance for
terrorism, whatever its source or ideology.
Terrorism is a global problem which requires a
global solution. For many years, the United Nations
has recognized the threat which terrorism poses to the
promotion and maintenance of world peace. Since
1963, when this Organization adopted its first anti-
terrorism convention, some 12 related conventions
have been approved by the international community.
Barbados is a party to seven of these instruments.
Earlier this week, I had the honour of signing the
International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Financing. Our Government is actively
reviewing the remaining conventions and their
administrative and legislative implications with a view
to providing for early adherence.
Barbados is committed to taking all necessary
measures to minimize the risk of terrorist acts being
perpetrated or financed in or from its national territory.
A thorough review of security has been undertaken at
our airport and seaport, and our authorities have taken
immediate action to ensure compliance with the
enhanced International Civil Aviation Organization and
Federal Aviation Administration guidelines issued after
11 September. We have also taken legislative action to
further strengthen our already well-regulated financial
services regime through amendments to the Money
Laundering (Prevention and Control) Act and the
Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act. Within the
Caribbean Community we have agreed to increase
cooperation in intelligence-gathering, analysis and
dissemination among our security and enforcement
personnel. We expect shortly to be in a position to
report in detail to the Security Council on measures
taken in compliance with the terms of resolution 1373
(2001).
Just as we agree that terrorism is a global
phenomenon to which no country can consider itself
13

immune, so too must we understand that it is a complex
problem necessitating a multidimensional response. As
the Secretary-General has so aptly put it in the 44th
meeting, in his opening statement of the general
debate:
“We face two possible futures: a mutually
destructive clash between so-called civilizations
based on the exaggeration of religious and
cultural differences, or a global community,
respecting diversity and rooted in universal
values. The latter must be our choice, but we can
achieve it only if we bring real hope to the
billions now trapped in poverty, conflict and
disease.”
We must all accept that the struggle against
terrorism can never hope to succeed if it is viewed
simply as a military campaign to strike at the power
base of the latest practitioners of terror. It must also
seek to find effective and lasting solutions to the
problems of underdevelopment, poverty and
deprivation, inequality, intolerance and injustice that
marginalize so large a percentage of the world’s
population. For it is from these conditions of
hopelessness and despair that spring new converts to
the cause of terrorism.
The events of 11 September and the extent to
which they have had an impact on the economic
fortunes of all of our countries have shown us the other
face of globalization: the reality of our growing
economic interdependence. Now more than ever, there
is a need to recognize the value of multilateralism and
the pre-eminent role of the United Nations in the
search for lasting solutions to the challenges that will
confront us in the early years of the twenty-first
century. The importance of giving priority to a
revitalized development agenda cannot be overstated.
In this regard, Barbados looks to the International
Conference on Financing for Development as a
constructive forum for refocusing the dialogue on
effective mechanisms for the implementation of the
stalled development agenda. We agree there is need to
reform the international economic and financial
architecture to meet the current development
challenges. We are pleased that international tax
cooperation will be one of the issues discussed at the
Conference.
Many developing countries, including Barbados,
were encouraged to diversify into the financial services
sector as a viable development alternative and now
derive a significant proportion of their national revenue
from that source. We therefore continue to insist on the
need for universal participation in decisions that affect
the operation of this sector.
Barbados is far advanced in the implementation
of its national commitments under Agenda 21. We
believe that the World Summit on Sustainable
Development presents an important opportunity to
build a new and expanded relationship with our
development partners for the full implementation of
commitments already undertaken at Rio. Johannesburg
should not merely review the status of progress of Rio,
but should also outline strategies for dealing decisively
with the sustainable development challenges that have
emerged since 1992. For all small island developing
States, follow-up of the Barbados Programme of
Action will form an integral part of this process.
Naturally, the Caribbean Basin countries will
continue their efforts to create a special regime for the
Caribbean Sea with the ultimate goal of achieving its
recognition as a special area in the context of
sustainable development.
It is no secret that the efforts towards the creation
of a new international trading system have resulted in
bitter disappointment for the majority of developing
countries, which have been severely disadvantaged by
the imbalance of rights, obligations, benefits and
concessions agreed at Uruguay, and by the failure of
Seattle to address that imbalance. We hope that the
Doha decision to launch a new round will lead to a
meaningful resolution of these critical developing
country concerns. We are convinced that sustained
economic and social progress for the developing world
will be achievable only within the framework of a fair,
equitable and inclusive trading arrangement that gives
due recognition to the differences in size and level of
development of Member States.
We welcome the agreement on drug patents,
which represents a major victory for the efforts of
developing countries to respond to their priority public
health needs and is of great significance in the fight
against HIV/AIDS.
The impact of the 11 September events on the
Caribbean has been immediate and severe. The
economic repercussions have served to emphasize the
extreme fragility and vulnerability of our small States
in the international economy. The countries of the
14

Caribbean Community, whose economies are heavily
dependent on tourism and financial services, have
joined forces to coordinate a regional emergency
response and recovery strategy to mitigate the effects
of the crisis.
It is clear, however, that responses at the national
and regional levels alone will be inadequate to deal
with the magnitude of this unprecedented situation. In
the words of the Prime Minister of Barbados, the Right
Honourable Owen Arthur:
“the international financial community has
traditionally required developing countries to rely
heavily on policy responses to deal with
economic crisis. But the situation that we face has
not been caused by policy failure, recklessness or
financial excesses by developing countries.
“Policy responses without the commitment
of real financial resources will therefore not
suffice. Barbados therefore stands ready to
support a well-conceived response from the
international financial community to the crisis at
hand.”
It is the mission of the United Nations to promote
the peaceful coexistence and the political, social and
economic welfare of the world’s peoples. It is in this
context that we must recognize the significance of the
World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
and renew our confidence in the capacity of
multilateral organizations to resolve differences and
promote a sense of shared values. This Conference
presented a unique opportunity for countries to take a
proactive approach in defusing both historic and
contemporary conflicts and in coming to terms with the
injustices of the past and creating new understandings
for the future.
We regret that in many respects the Conference
did not get the serious high-level attention it deserved
and that the treatment of its fundamental issues was
less wide-ranging and definitive than we would have
wished. In the words of Professor Hilary Beckles, of
the Barbados delegation:
“The crisis of modernity that finds expression in
spiralling racial hatred, xenophobia and related
intolerance is not the sole burden of any one part
of the global community, even though the victims
of the crimes of which I speak continue to feel in
the course of everyday life the kind of pain and
anguish not easily imagined by others.”
The citizens of the Caribbean are a transplanted
people, who have forged from the crucible of slavery,
colonialism and economic exploitation a vibrant,
pluralistic, multiracial society built on tolerance and
respect for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity. In
these difficult times, we believe that there is much that
can be learned from our experiences and much that can
be done to promote the culture of peace and
understanding, especially among the youth. In this
regard, Barbados attaches importance to the early
convening of the General Assembly special session on
children and to a rededication of efforts to achieve the
international development targets already set.
We would do well to remember that, in the words
of the Secretary-General, “none of the issues that faced
us on 10 September has become less urgent”. Indeed, it
would be an unfortunate irony if the global response to
terrorism were conducted in such a manner — through
the massive redeployment of resources from other
priorities, such as the fight against narcotics
trafficking, extreme poverty, disease and environmental
degradation — as to further exacerbate the economic,
political and cultural instabilities which are the primary
breeding ground for terrorism.
Small countries like my own are not part of the
problem, but we are nevertheless required to be part of
the solution, in circumstances that place a
disproportionate burden on our financial, human and
administrative resources, which had already been
struggling to respond to the global economic recession.
Barbados remains fully committed to the United
Nations system and to the values it seeks to promote.
We are keenly aware of the important work the United
Nations continues to carry out in the eastern Caribbean.
We are pleased to provide tangible support for that
work through the provision of purpose-built
headquarters to house the seven agencies whose
subregional offices are located in Bridgetown. We will
continue to work closely with the agencies in
developing a model partnership for eastern Caribbean
development.
In this context, we welcome the support of the
United Nations Development Programme, in
partnership with the International Monetary Fund and
the Government of Canada, for the Caribbean
Technical Assistance Centre, which was inaugurated
15

last week in Barbados. We look forward to similar
levels of United Nations cooperation for other
important programmes, in particular that of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP), whose work is providing critical support to
the region in an extremely volatile international
economic and security environment.
Two years ago, the Prime Minister of Barbados
emphasized that we were leaving the twentieth century
and entering the twenty-first conscious of the dangers,
but excited by the prospects. Recent events must not be
allowed to dampen our optimism. We must remain firm
in the hope that humanity possesses the fortitude and
determination to triumph in the face of extreme
adversity, and that respect for diversity, human dignity
and the sanctity of human life will prevail.
We are not expected to complete this task, but
neither are we at liberty to abstain from it.



"
56,2001,ZMB,"﻿Let me begin by
congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election as
President of this fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly. My delegation pledges its support and
cooperation to you and your country as you discharge
your important responsibilities.
I also wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute
to your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland,
President of the fifty-fifth session. We are grateful to
him for the able and successful manner in which he
presided over the session.
I wish to salute the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, on his re-election to the helm of the United
Nations, which is an attestation of the commitment and
the dynamism with which he has guided the
Organization during this period of great challenge.
I am addressing this session in my dual capacity
as President of the Republic of Zambia and current
Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU).
This occasion holds a special significance to me as I
make my last statement to the General Assembly as
President of the Republic of Zambia, having almost
come to the end of my second and last tenure of office
of my country.
This year the general debate of the General
Assembly is taking place in November instead of two
months ago, because of the tragic events of 11
September. Those developments united us on the need
to postpone this session, just as we were united in our
resolve to fight international terrorism, which knows
no boundaries. Indeed, today more than ever before,
the entire world seems more conscious of, and gripped
by, the evil of international terrorism and the
consequent loss of life and destruction of property.
Terrorism is an affront to humanity. It is a
heinous and cowardly act that is hated almost as much
as we hated apartheid or any form of racism. It is for
these reasons that Africa has for a long time been
fighting international terrorism. In Algiers, Algeria, in
1999, we, as African leaders, took a mammoth decision
by adopting a Convention on the prevention and
combating of all forms of terrorism. Although the
Convention has not entered into force, Africa has since
then been seeking international support in the adoption
of appropriate strategies for the effective eradication of
the multiple root causes of terrorism. We remain
resolute and resolutely committed to, and united in, the
pursuit of this goal.
However, let me also hasten to add that, in spite
of its gravity and magnitude, the threat of terrorism
must not override or deduct from the appropriate focus
on the outstanding matters on the global agenda.
Burning issues such as the scourge of conflicts, poverty
eradication, the debt problem and the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, among other things, should continue to be
accorded the necessary attention they so much deserve.
While many good things and positive
developments have been taking place on the African
continent, these are, nevertheless, largely
overshadowed by the many conflicts that continue to
rage in a number of our countries. We have witnessed
conflict in the Mano River basin involving Sierra
15

Leone, Liberia and Guinea; the situations in Sudan and
Somalia are yet to be settled; disturbances recently
erupted in the Comoros; and violence continues to
threaten the constitutionally elected Government in the
Central African Republic. The Great Lakes region
remains a tinderbox, while the conflict in Angola has
experienced no movement towards resolution for quite
some time now. Meanwhile, the ceasefire agreement in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo is yet to be fully
implemented.
Africa does not lack the political will or resolve
to find solutions to these conflicts. Neither has Africa
sat back and waited for the outside world to come and
resolve these conflicts. Instead, Africa has
acknowledged responsibility for these conflicts and has
spearheaded efforts to bring peace wherever there have
been conflicts.
It was Africa, through the efforts of President
Abdelaziz Bouteflika, that brought about an end to the
Ethiopia-Eritrea conflict. The guns were silenced in
Liberia and Sierra Leone, thanks to the efforts of the
leaders of the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS), who are still leading the effort to
bring peace to the Mano River basin. The leaders of the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD)
have continued to seek peaceful settlements in Sudan
and Somalia, while the Lusaka peace processes have
addressed the conflicts in Angola and the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. Most recently, a Transitional
Government of National Unity was inaugurated in
Burundi on 1 November 2001, as a culmination of
efforts started by the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and
completed by Nelson Mandela, two of Africa’s most
distinguished sons.
It is clear from the foregoing that what Africa
needs to successfully resolve the conflicts on the
continent is the moral, practical and financial support
of the international community. Africa has always
believed in the dictum that in unity there is strength.
We believe that all nations belong to a common global
community with a shared destiny and shared
responsibilities.
To this end, Africa has always been ready and
willing to participate in efforts to restore peace where
peace has broken down, irrespective of the location of
the region. Our men and women have served as
peacekeepers in Europe, in Asia and in the Middle East
because we believe that peace is indivisible.
Africa therefore expects that, just as we are ready
and willing to serve in the promotion and defence of
peace everywhere, so, too, should the international
community be willing to be full partners in the search
for peace in Africa.
In this regard, I cannot help but register our
disappointment that after the painstaking efforts by Sir
Ketumile Masire to organize the inter-Congolese
national dialogue in Addis Ababa on 15 October 2001,
and notwithstanding the many pledges made to finance
it, the dialogue could not take off due partly to
insufficient funds. I would therefore like to appeal to
the international community, through the Assembly, to
provide the necessary assistance to Sir Ketumile
Masire, the facilitator of the inter-Congolese dialogue,
to enable him to proceed with organizing the dialogue
and to conclude the peace process in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. In particular, I wish to make a
special appeal to all those who have made pledges to
the facilitator to release these pledges urgently.
Conflicts do not stand alone or develop in a
vacuum. Political conflicts and social tension are a
result of imbalances in the dispensation of political
power, economic wealth and benefits, as well as of
social suppression, segregation and the repression of
one or more groups of people on the basis of race,
ethnicity or even religion. The African continent, with
barely 40 years of independence, has suffered centuries
of fractured development, deprivation of resources and
the political and social suppression of its people. These
are the conditions at the centre of Africa’s current
struggle to redress both the political and economic
imbalances.
The United Nations World Conference against
Racism, held in South Africa this year, took a major
historical step by refocusing on that human injustice of
the past, whose consequences continue to ravage our
societies to this day. The Conference condemned the
slave trade, slavery, colonialism and apartheid as
crimes against humanity. The condemnation of past
injustices should be made on the premise that we now
have the will, the resolve and the commitment to
embark upon the process of healing, reconciliation and
redress. Our final objective is to bring about justice,
political liberation, economic development and a fair
social system that will promote the human rights of
individuals, the national sovereignty of States and
mutually beneficial regional and global
interdependence and cooperation.
16

The African economic and social condition has
been on the agenda of the United Nations since
Africa’s decade of independence. Slavery, colonialism
and apartheid, and now pervasive poverty, misery and
squalor for the majority of our people continue to
ravage the continent with negative consequences for
human life. The advent of HIV/AIDS, coupled with
centuries-old diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis
and with many other communicable yet curable
diseases such as cholera, dysentery and diarrhoea, has
reduced African life expectancy from 68 years to 50
years, and in some countries to only a pathetic 38
years. The mortality rate for children under the age of 5
years is 140 per 1,000 births on the average. Such
adverse social conditions cannot be at all conducive to
economic development and improvement in the
standard of living. These conditions have to be changed
for the better.
The development process of post-colonial or
independent Africa has also accumulated debt and
suffered negative terms of trade for its raw materials
and products exported to the developed countries. On
the one hand, the resulting huge trade deficits of
African nations reduce their purchasing power for the
technology, equipment and investment capital they
need for economic growth and development. On the
other hand, the deficit increases the foreign debt and
shrinks public investment programmes for
infrastructure and education and health delivery
systems, thereby further suppressing the very
conditions necessary for development and the
eradication of poverty.
Africa is not asking for charity! No. What Africa
is asking for is more accessible conditions for its raw
materials and products, and for prices that are fair and
conducive to development. We are not asking for
charity. No. We are asking for more African countries
to have access to the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Initiative (HIPC), so that they could use the
freed resources to build infrastructure such as schools,
combat diseases, provide safe drinking water and
invest in income-generating community activities
because, eventually, these are the measures which will
reduce poverty. We further call on the international
community to intensify and accelerate initiatives that
should bring debt cancellation to the poor countries.
There cannot be a credible solution to the problem of
poverty in Africa without debt cancellation.
The continent of Africa has accepted and fully
shares the responsibilities that come with globalization.
As a developing continent, we need to continue to
reorganize ourselves to face the challenges of the time.
The thirty-seventh session of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) Assembly of Heads of State and
Government, held in Lusaka, Zambia, last July, took
Africa to a new historical stage when it launched the
African Union (AU). The AU will elevate Africa’s
integration agenda by forging a more cohesive political
union, while also creating an economic community of
nations. The Union also seeks to promote new levels of
partnerships with the international community,
particularly in the areas of sustainable economic
growth and development and of peace and security. At
the Lusaka Summit, the OAU also adopted a new
economic-centred recovery programme and poverty
reduction strategy called the New African Initiative,
which is now called the New Partnership for African
Development.
I wish to take this opportunity to express Africa’s
appreciation to the Group of 8 which, at its meeting in
Genoa, Italy, in July, endorsed the African initiative. I
also wish to thank the European Union, which, during
our meeting last month in Brussels, pledged its full
support of the initiative. It is important to note also that
Africa has been an active participant in global trade
liberalization initiatives. We thank the Government of
the United States for the practical step it has taken
through the African Growth and Opportunity Act. It is
a pioneering example in expanding trade and export
opportunities for Africa and for development.
Debt relief, debt cancellation, increased
production, accessibility to export markets, better
terms of trade and economic integration — these mark
the way forward to African development, sustainable
growth and poverty reduction. Under economic growth
and improved social conditions, democracy and good
governance will be sustained and conflicts reduced and
managed, while peace and security will last.
The time has come for me to thank the people of
Zambia for having given me the privilege and honour
of serving in the distinguished capacity of President of
the Republic of Zambia, to thank my colleagues in
Africa for entrusting me with the chairmanship of the
OAU and for their confidence and support and to thank
all of you in the international community. I have tried
my best during my tenure of office and can therefore
only hope that I have lived and performed up to your
17

expectations. Soon Zambia will have a new president.
It is my hope that he will be accorded the same support
and cooperation you have so kindly given to me in the
last ten years.




"
56,2001,KOR,"﻿Before all else, on behalf of the Government and
people of the Republic of Korea, I wish to convey our
deepest condolences and sympathy to the bereaved
families and friends of those who lost lives in the
horrendous terrorist attacks of 11 September. This
unprecedented criminal act has posed a grave threat to
international peace and security, as well as a serious
challenge to human dignity. Such terrorist acts
constitute a crime against humanity and civilization
that cannot be justified by any cause.
To forestall the recurrence of such incidents and
to eradicate international terrorism, comprehensive and
common efforts at the international level are urgently
needed. The United Nations is expected to play an
important role in these efforts. Immediately after the
terrorist attacks in September, the Security Council and
the General Assembly adopted resolutions denouncing
terrorism and calling for measures for its elimination.
This prompt action, as well as the ensuing debates at
the United Nations, attest to the major role to be played
by the Organization in the anti-terrorism effort.
The Government of the Republic of Korea will
continue to actively take part in the measures taken by
the United Nations, including the implementation of
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), and will join
the effort to free the international community from the
scourge of terrorism. At the same time, we will spare
no effort in rendering humanitarian assistance to the
refugees who have been displaced as a result of the war
against terrorism.
Furthermore, in preparing to co-host the 2002
Korea/Japan FIFA World Cup, we will do our utmost to
ensure that the event is held in a secure atmosphere
free from the threat of terrorism.
I stand here with much reminiscence. The
Republic of Korea, once one of the major recipients of
United Nations assistance, is now an active contributor
to the effort to realize the ideals and goals of this body.
It is also the country whose Minister for Foreign
Affairs had the honour of presiding over the first
session of the General Assembly in the new century.
The birth of the Republic and its development
thereafter owe a great deal to United Nations
34

assistance. Indeed, the Government of the Republic of
Korea was born from the United Nations-supervised
elections held pursuant to the United Nations
resolution calling for an independent Government in
Korea. During the Korean war, in the early 1950s, we
were able to defend our country, thanks to the
participation and noble sacrifice of the United Nations
forces.
After the war, as the Korean people strove to
overcome the war’s devastation, rebuild the country,
achieve economic development and emerge a
democracy, upholding human rights, we found
enormous strength and encouragement in the support
and cooperation rendered by the United Nations. The
Korean people will never forget this. We will redouble
our efforts to do our share for the cause of global peace
and prosperity, as enshrined in the Charter.
Looking back on the Republic of Korea’s arduous
and eventful process of development over the past half
century, we see that it is an exemplary case of all the
good that can be achieved when the international
community works closely with a people determined to
overcome poverty and the legacy of conflict in order to
build a better future for themselves.
Ten years have passed since the simultaneous
admission of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea to the United Nations. In
the intervening decade, particularly during recent
years, much progress has been made in inter-Korean
relations. Taking this opportunity, I would like to
briefly touch upon the peace process that is unfolding
on the Korean peninsula — an effort for which we seek
members’ continuing support.
The first inter-Korean summit, held in June 2000,
was truly a historic event for peace, not only on the
Korean peninsula, but also in East Asia and indeed the
world. Before the summit, the Korean peninsula had
remained a lone island where the cold war maintained
its foothold. The summit initiated the process of
melting away that foothold — the icy wall of hostility
and confrontation that had thickened between South
and North Korea over the past half century. The whole
world welcomed the breakthrough, expressing high
hopes for peace on the Korean peninsula, as
exemplified here by the joint statement of the co-
chairpersons of the Millennium Summit and the
General Assembly resolution.
Since then positive changes have taken place on
the Korean peninsula. There have been three rounds of
reunions by members of separated families. At the
opening of the Sydney Olympic Games, the world was
moved to see South and North Korean athletes march
in together. The project to relink a railway and road
between the two Koreas is now under way. The first
South-North Defence Ministers’ meeting was held with
a view to reducing tension and furthering peace.
Meanwhile, North Korea has steadily expanded
its diplomatic horizon, establishing diplomatic ties with
most countries of the European Union and many
others. Such endeavours have been strongly welcomed
and supported by the Republic of Korea, which has
striven to shore up global support for the Korean peace
process.
The goal of our sunshine policy of promoting
engagement between South and North Korea is for the
two sides to live together in peace and cooperation, in
preparation for peaceful unification. The engagement
policy is actively supported by the whole world, not to
mention the Korean people and key neighbours
surrounding the Korean peninsula. North Korea, too,
embraced the spirit of peace, reconciliation and
cooperation Joint Declaration of 15 June 2000 issued at
the inter-Korean summit.
The Government of the Republic of Korea will
continue to do its utmost so that a lasting peace may
take root on the Korean peninsula and global peace
may be strengthened. We sincerely thank the United
Nations and the leaders of the world for the
encouragement they have given us so far. We shall
continue to count on their steadfast support and
cooperation.
The work required of the United Nations in the
twenty-first century is no less than daunting. Numerous
tasks lie ahead of us, such as fostering international
peace and security, promoting the common prosperity
of the global village, advancing democracy and human
rights, eradicating poverty, combating transnational
crime, protecting the environment and enhancing
human well-being.
Rising to these challenges, world leaders gathered
last year at the Millennium Summit to reconfirm their
responsibilities and to chart a new course for the
international community in the twenty-first century.
The Millennium Declaration aims at materializing a
35

new United Nations that can effectively meet the many
challenges faced by the international community.
It should be appreciated in particular that the
Declaration sets concrete policy goals to free humanity
from fear and poverty. Now the task before all States
Members of the United Nations is to muster the best of
their wisdom and strength in devising and
implementing measures to fulfil the commitments
outlined in the Millennium Declaration. The Republic
of Korea will actively cooperate with all other
Members, so that these commitments may be carried
out faithfully.
With the end of the cold war and the passing of
the twentieth century, reconciliation and cooperation
have come to define the tenor of the evolving global
order. However, genuine global peace has yet to be
obtained. In many corners of the globe, the threat of
terrorism looms large, and conflicts and confrontations
caused by ethnic, religious and economic factors still
persist. Far worse, the greatest victims are often the
most vulnerable groups, such as children, women and
ethnic minorities. In this regard, I fully support the
efforts of the United Nations to strengthen its
capability to prevent and resolve conflicts and to deal
with their aftermath. The conflict prevention and
peacekeeping function of the United Nations is
essential for global peace, and the role of the United
Nations in post-conflict peace-building should also be
expanded.
Humanity in the twenty-first century is at the
mercy of rapid and sweeping changes that are
unprecedented in the history of human civilization. At
the core of the vortex lie the information technology
revolution and globalization. If we fail to meet the
challenges posed by these trends, the promises of peace
and prosperity in the twenty-first century will not be
fulfilled. Member States of the United Nations must
gather their collective wisdom and will so that all
members of the international community can enjoy the
benefits of globalization and the revolutionary
advances in information and communication
technology.
Against this backdrop, President Kim Dae-jung
proposed building a trans-Eurasia information network
at the Asia-Europe Summit last year, with a view to
galvanizing information exchange and cooperation
between Asia and Europe to an unprecedented level. In
order to narrow the information gap between nations,
international assistance is required, particularly in
building the information infrastructures and human
resources of developing countries. In this regard,
greater cooperation and attention on the part of the
developed countries are essential.
Furthermore, the effective management of the
global economy and poverty eradication in the
underdeveloped countries should be placed high on the
agenda of global consultations. The visibility and
transparency of global financial markets should be
enhanced by reinforcing the functions of the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and
other international financial organizations.
The next round of World Trade Organization
(WTO) talks should be launched as soon as possible in
order to strengthen free trade and the multilateral
trading system. In this regard, I hope the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
in March of next year, will succeed in devising a
comprehensive plan to deal with issues related to
poverty and development. We have to bear in mind the
lesson drawn from history that fostering the middle-
class through poverty eradication can lay a solid
foundation for democracy.
As far as the environment is concerned,
international efforts to protect “Mother Nature” should
be carried out in a more effective and substantial
manner.
In some advanced countries, the development of
bio-technology has reached such astonishing levels as
to arouse fear of infringing upon the realm of God.
While acknowledging the positive role such scientific
advancements may have in prolonging human life and
improving the quality of life, we need to prevent them
from being misused and from becoming an affront to
human dignity.
Democracy and human rights are universal values
that must continue to be sought and upheld in the
twenty-first century. In recent decades, democracy and
human rights have claimed many victories around the
world, but they have also suffered setbacks. Human
rights continue to be abused in many parts of the world
in the form of kidnapping and torture, illegal
executions, discrimination and other violations. It is
particularly distressing that large-scale and systematic
violations of human rights persist in some regions of
conflict. Such deplorable acts cannot be tolerated. I
36

sincerely hope that the second conference of the
Community of Democracies, to be held in Seoul in
October of next year, will prove to be a milestone in
this regard.
Humanity places great expectations upon the
United Nations to meet the challenges of the twenty-
first century and to make the most of the opportunities
it brings, because this global body provides a unique
forum for all the countries of the world together to seek
solutions to common problems in the spirit of mutual
respect and cooperation. To rise to the task, the United
Nations requires ongoing reform. Its financial and
organizational foundations must be strengthened in
accordance with its expanding roles. In particular, the
reform of the Security Council, given its importance to
all Member States, must be achieved through general
agreement, with a view to making the Council more
representative, democratic and efficient.
The United Nations must stand firmly at the
centre of efforts to further spread and consolidate
multilateralism around the world, based on the spirit of
mutual understanding and compromise. Tolerance and
dialogue must be upheld in international relations if we
are to make the twenty-first century an era of shared
prosperity and peaceful coexistence among diverse
civilizations.
The Republic of Korea will strive to contribute to
the further development of the United Nations in the
spirit of repaying the generosity it has received from
the international community. Befitting the country’s
growing capabilities, the Republic of Korea’s
contribution to the United Nations budget is to increase
significantly in the coming years, in accordance with
the new scale of assessments adopted last year. Next
year, it will become the tenth largest contributor to the
regular budget of the United Nations. With its troops
now taking part in the Organization’s peacekeeping
missions in East Timor and three other places, the
Republic of Korea will also continue to actively
participate in the United Nations endeavours for peace
and security.
Furthermore, we will share our experiences in
economic development and democratization with our
neighbours in the global village and do what we can to
bridge the gap between the developing and developed
countries.
I am convinced that the United Nations, on the
strength of the concerted efforts of all countries
represented here, will continue to be a beacon of hope,
lighting the road ahead for humanity in the twenty-first
century.


"
56,2001,SYR,"﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you,
Sir, on your election to the presidency of this session.
We are confident that the posts you held in your
country and the respect you enjoy will facilitate your
task in leading the deliberations of this session of the
General Assembly to their desired objectives.
I would also like to express our appreciation to
your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the efforts he
made last year to lead the work of the previous session
to a successful conclusion. Let me also congratulate
Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election to a second term as
Secretary-General of our international Organization
and on winning the Nobel Peace Prize, together with
the United Nations. I would like to assure him that our
cooperation with him will continue in order to
consolidate the role of the United Nations in various
domains.
The international and regional circumstances
prevailing since the events of last September have cast
a dark shadow on our work. The new world order,
whose emergence was announced after the
disintegration of the Soviet Union and the Gulf war,
soon faltered, due to the failure or lack of desire to
adopt the language of dialogue in order to eliminate
hostile climates and the refusal to apply equal
standards in international relations to resolve regional
conflicts, and due to the adoption of the method of
daily crisis management, which consists of addressing
only surface issues, instead of delving deep into the
root causes and addressing them according to the
23

criteria of justice, international legitimacy and human
solidarity.
The world watched in disbelief the horrifying
attacks on Washington, D.C., and New York. We in
Syria and in the Arab world did not hesitate to
denounce those attacks and to condemn them in the
strongest possible terms. In the aftermath of those
attacks, we also called for international cooperation
under the auspices of the United Nations to uproot
terrorism in all its forms. Likewise, we called for an
agreement on measures to define terrorism in an effort
to guarantee effectiveness in combating it and in
addressing its root causes.
The phenomenon of terrorism is not confined to a
particular society, culture or religion. It has appeared,
and is still appearing, in many countries made up of
numerous groups with different demands, beliefs and
objectives. That is why it is a gross injustice and is
totally unrealistic to link terrorism to Arabs and
Muslims. Suffice it to mention, for example, a number
of infamous terrorist organizations such as Bader-
Meinhoff gang, in Germany, the Red Brigades, in Italy
and Japan, and what has been taking place in Northern
Ireland and in Spain, not to mention the various
extremist organizations in the United States of
America.
Those who link terrorist acts to Islam ignore the
fact that Islam respects all monotheistic religions, calls
for tolerance among their followers and prohibits the
killing of innocents or acts of aggression against their
properties. But the pressing question now is how to
eliminate from the minds of American citizens the
feeling of hatred against Arabs and Muslims, feelings
promoted by tens of thousands of publications, articles
and films for the last 50 years.
Senior officials at the highest level in the
American Administration and in European countries
have warned against linking terrorism to Arabs and
Muslims and have issued positive statements. But,
regrettably, those statements, though important, cannot
erase the long history of defamation in books and films
that have distorted the image of Arabs and remain in
circulation. Moreover, we have recently heard that new
films are being made, and books being prepared for
publication, that incite feelings of hatred and link
terrorism to Arabs and Muslims, thereby manipulating
the tragic events of September.
Syria has always stressed the need to work on all
levels to combat international terrorism in all its forms
and in a way that is consistent with the principles and
purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. Syria
was the first country to call, in 1985, for the convening
of an international conference under the auspices of the
United Nations to define terrorism and to differentiate
it from the struggle of peoples for national liberation.
In response to a request by Syria, an item was listed on
the agenda of the General Assembly, stressing the
importance of determining the root causes of terrorism
and taking appropriate measures to prevent it, combat
it and address its root causes.
Syria has also called upon all countries to take the
necessary measures at the national, regional and
international levels to combat terrorism and implement
the provisions of international law and relevant
international resolutions, with the aim of preventing
the perpetration of terrorist acts or their financing and
inciting. We would also like to indicate that, since
1952, the Syrian Arab Republic has been one of the
first countries to adopt firm national laws and
legislation to combat terrorism.
International terrorism is not a new phenomenon.
Syria and other Arab countries have also been victims
of terrorism. For years we have called upon the
international community to condemn all types of
terrorism, especially the State terrorism practised by
Israel. In this context, I would like to refer to the
values of tolerance that have distinguished our region
throughout history. Our region had never known the
phenomenon of terrorism until after Israel was created
on the basis of religion, in 1948, supported by the
efforts of such well-known terrorist organizations as
the Irgun, Tzioni, the Stern gang, the Lehy and the
Haganah, which were responsible for sowing the seeds
of terrorism and fear in Palestine and outside it.
Israel has invented new types of terrorist
practices in order to continue its occupation of Arab
territories. It expelled Palestinians from their homes
and lands and perpetrated numerous massacres,
beginning with the massacre of Deir Yassin in 1948, to
that of Beit Reima just a few weeks ago. But despite
that, it has not been held accountable for these crimes.
The Palestinian people have, therefore, had no
alternative in their struggle to rid themselves of their
state of frustration, despair and international disregard
for their plight but to start one uprising after another as
24

a way to liberate their lands from occupation and to
restore their dignity like any other people in the world.
What is both odd and surprising is that whenever
Palestinian refugees and their organizations residing in
Syria are mentioned, the United States describes them
as terrorist organizations and considers the country that
hosts them as one that sponsors terrorism. It ignores
the fact that Israel was completely responsible for
uprooting those Palestinians from their homes,
expelling them from their homeland and denying them,
up until this very moment, their right of return in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 194
(III). Regrettably, there are some countries and certain
media outlets that believe those claims and describe
those Palestinian organizations as terrorist. They do not
stop there, but extend that allegation to Syria as well,
instead of condemning Israel and expressing
appreciation to Syria for hosting about 500,000
Palestinian refugees and offering them work, security
and a dignified life.
But in any case the request on the part of Israel
and those who support it to have these Palestinian
refugees and their organizations expelled from Syria
raises the very important question of where those
refugees should go. The natural and human answer
says that they should go back to their country,
Palestine. They are more entitled to go back to their
homes than the million Russian Jews who were brought
in by Israel during the last 10 years. They are also more
entitled than another 1 million Jews that the head of the
Israeli Government plans to bring into Israel, although
they live well and securely in their countries. Although
the rulers of Israel claim that the Palestinians have no
place in their towns and villages and that the return of
Palestinians threatens the existence of Israel, the truth
is that the return of Palestinian refugees will alleviate
racism in Israel and will not threaten its existence.
During its invasion of Lebanon in 1982 Israel
perpetrated the ugliest of crimes when it shelled and
besieged Beirut for over 80 days, during which time
thousands of innocent Lebanese civilians were killed,
the infrastructure of Lebanon was destroyed and many
horrific massacres were perpetrated. Those massacres
included the atrocities at Sabra and Shatila, which the
entire world witnessed and is aware of.
Faced with Israeli arrogance, the failure of the
international community to stop Israel from
perpetrating its crimes, and the provision of Israel with
the latest American warplanes and the most destructive
and sophisticated weapons, the Lebanese people had no
choice but to stand fast and resist occupation. This
resistance continued until it achieved its most
important victory in May 2000, when it forced the
Israeli occupying forces to abandon most Lebanese
territories. No one in the world should forget that the
battles of the Lebanese resistance were fought on the
occupied territories of Lebanon against occupying
Israeli soldiers and that this resistance did not act
beyond Lebanese borders and did not hurt Israeli
civilians during the 20 years of occupation, whereas
the occupying Israeli forces killed thousands of
Lebanese civilians, not to mention their repeated
destruction of hundreds of houses and much of the
Lebanese infrastructure.
After all this, how could anyone fail to
distinguish between terrorism and resistance? Anyone
wishing to target terrorism in our region must target
Israeli terrorism first and foremost, because what Israel
does is the utmost form of terrorism; it is absolutely
bereft of human compassion. There is no alternative
but to address the root causes of this terrorism once and
for all and uproot it from our modern life through the
implementation of international legitimacy in order to
restore rights, end injustice and occupation and grant
the Palestinian people the right to self-determination
freely and wholly.
These days mark the tenth anniversary of the
convening of the Madrid Peace Conference, for which
we made sincere efforts so it would create an opening
for a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
The serious and purposeful negotiations that Syria has
engaged in during recent years have shown two things
to the international community: first, that Israel neither
desires nor is serious about achieving a just and
comprehensive peace in accordance with United
Nations resolutions; secondly, that Syria has the right
to recover its territory in the Golan to the border of 4
June 1967, without compromise. However, we were
always faced with Israel’s intransigence, denial of
rights, evasion of the real issues and of the
requirements of peace. Indeed, Israel has done what its
Prime Minister promised at the time: to make
negotiations go in circles for 10 years, with all the
dangerous repercussions and tragic results that would
produce.
There is talk now about an opportunity for the
resumption of the peace process according to the terms
25

of reference of the Madrid Conference. We believe that
unless the two sponsors of the peace process, the
European Union and the United Nations, make a
serious effort to implement the relevant United Nations
resolutions, this opportunity will be wasted again, with
all the dangerous repercussions that will hold for this
important and sensitive region of the world.
The dialogue among civilizations has gained
increasing importance in the aftermath of the escalation
of hostile attacks on certain cultures, religions and
nationalities. Syria, which is the cradle of early
civilizations and a source of scientific and intellectual
enlightenment, recognizes the importance of this
dialogue and the necessity of pursuing it in the service
of humanity and future generations. Our region, at its
pinnacle, was a lively example of dialogue and
interaction among civilizations. Within its broad
horizons, the civilizations of East and West met.
Intellectuals, men of letters, scientists and philosophers
from different parts of the world contributed to the
formation of these civilizations. In this context we
hope that the Global Agenda for Dialogue among
Civilizations, recently adopted by the General
Assembly, will be implemented. We find in this agenda
a horizon that responds to the aspirations of people
towards enriching the awareness of common human
values among all peoples and deepening the spirit of
understanding among them.
In conclusion, allow me to convey to you the
gratitude of my country, Syria, and its President,
Government and people for the precious trust and the
great support that so many countries in the world
expressed when they elected the Syrian Arab Republic
to the Security Council. I would like to assure you that
Syria shall remain, as it has always been, in the
forefront of those who defend international legitimacy
and the Charter of the United Nations and will make
every possible effort during its membership on the
Security Council to contribute to preserving
international peace and security.




"
56,2001,IDN,"﻿On behalf of the
Indonesian delegation, I am pleased to congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at the fifty-sixth session. We are
pleased that the stewardship of this session has been
entrusted to so capable a diplomat from a fraternal
Asian country, with which Indonesia has always
enjoyed the most cordial of relations.
I wish to preface my statement by expressing
once again, on behalf of the Government and people of
Indonesia, our deepest condolences and sympathy to
the Government and people of the United States with
regard to the massive tragedy that they suffered
recently, and have borne so admirably.
Indeed, international terrorism today looms on
the horizon as one of the major threats to human life
and civilization. The truth, of course, is that multiple
threats and challenges are an inherent and coexisting
feature of inter-State relations. We cannot grapple with
this threat and leave other threats to wreak havoc on
the world. It is the urgent and compelling task of this
world Organization to address them all, for each of
them has the potential to destroy a large part, if not all,
of the human race.
The threat of nuclear annihilation is still there. It
has by no means faded with the demise of the cold war,
as the campaign for nuclear disarmament remains
stalled. With conventional weapons, mostly small arms,
wars and other forms of mass violence are being
carried out in various parts of the world. Thus, whole
populations — involving millions — are being
displaced, maimed or killed, 90 percent of whom are
civilians, and the majority of them women, children
and the elderly.
In the Middle East, the killing of innocent
Palestinians continues even while Israeli forces
partially withdraw from occupied Palestinian towns.
For as long as the inalienable right of the Palestinians
to self-determination is being violated with impunity,
there can be no lasting peace in that part of the world.
In the economic sphere, we have not been able to
solve the basic problem of poverty in spite of the fact
4

that we have the resources and the technical capability
to at least wage an effective war against this scourge of
humankind.
The economies of South-East Asia have just
begun to recover from the devastation of a global
financial crisis that erupted just a few years ago and
already we are facing the unwelcome prospect of its
possible recurrence. New international architectures
that would shield vulnerable economies from such a
crisis remain a distant dream. The global economic
environment is simply getting less hospitable to the
aspirations of the developing world for growth.
Without the resources and technology for sustainable
development, developing countries are rapidly losing
their natural resources, while the physical environment
of the world continues to deteriorate.
To us Indonesians, these global problems become
even more poignant as they are replicated in our
country and as they impact on the lives of our people.
In the financial crisis of 1997-1998, as the rupia
plummeted in value and factories and businesses closed
down, millions lost their jobs and were reduced to
abject poverty. Since then, our economy has begun to
recover. Last year, Indonesia enjoyed an economic
growth of some 5 per cent, in contrast to the 13.5 per
cent contraction that followed the onset of the financial
crisis in 1997. Also, in the year 2000, Indonesia
attained a level of trade that surpassed those achieved
before the crisis. However, the current global economic
downturn, compounded by the events of 11 September,
has lowered the expected target for economic growth to
3 per cent in 2001.
In the face of these realities, we need massive
direct investment flows in order to consolidate our
recovery and march steadily on the road of
development. We feel that the situation in Indonesia
today already merits the confidence of investors, but
we can barely make a good case for this in the light of
lingering threats to the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of our Republic.
Like many other developing countries — and,
indeed, some developed countries — Indonesia needs
to overcome the problem of graft and corruption in its
bureaucracies and in the corporate sector. The
deficiencies of our legal system and judiciary and the
past human rights record of our police and military
establishment have produced less than optimum
conditions for Indonesia’s economic recovery. These
are daunting challenges, as daunting as the global
problems that they replicate and reflect.
Yet, in confronting these national problems, I do
not despair, just as I do not despair in contemplating
the global challenges and problems of our time. I
believe that all these problems, global and national, can
be traced to a single common root — a deficiency in
human relationships — for wherever there is inequality
and it is not acceptable to the weaker party, there can
only be tension and conflict. Wherever the powerful
can get away with exploiting the weak, a sense of
outrage smoulders and there can be neither stability nor
peace. Wherever there is injustice and it is not
redressed, there arises a culture of vengeance.
If the problem is basically an imbalance in human
relationships, then the solution lies in the rectification
of that imbalance — in the recognition that all human
beings are of equal worth and have basically equal
rights before the law of God and human law. As they
are all equals, each is accountable for what he does to
any other and everyone’s common sense of justice is
satisfied.
This solution is not something I discovered on my
way to this forum. It is something that we all have
known for a very long time now, and we have been
calling it democracy. Against the expectations of many
outside — and, indeed, within —our own nation over
the past three years, and especially the last six months,
and in the midst of our financial crisis, Indonesia has
relentlessly pursued the difficult process of reform and
democratization. We have been able to manage
successive transitions of power in a democratic,
peaceful and constitutional manner.
Thus, Indonesia today stands proud as one of the
largest democracies in the world. As a nation with an
overwhelmingly Muslim population, we are the living
refutation of the erroneous notion that Islam and
democracy are incompatible. Islam has always stood
for the equality and fraternity of all human beings and
for the optimum exercise of the human will. If only in
that, we Indonesians have a natural affinity for
democracy.
The challenge for all of us is to ensure that
democracy works and that it does actually deliver a
better life for the people. In the case of Indonesia,
pivotal to this outcome is the recent introduction of
bold and far-reaching measures on the relationship
between the central Government and regional
5

authorities in order to address the legitimate aspirations
of the societies in the region. Likewise, my
Government has made a democratic response to the
challenge of separatism in Aceh and Irian Jaya.
We will sincerely bring redress for their
grievances. We will meet their legitimate demands by
introducing special autonomy and a greater sharing of
resources, and guarantee respect for their culture and
ethnic identities. We will not, however, tolerate any
acts of terror or violence for separatist ends against the
territorial integrity and national unity of our Republic.
In this regard, Members of this Organization have
extended overwhelming support for Indonesia’s
territorial integrity and national unity, consistent with
the principle of the territorial integrity of States
enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
Through the strict and impartial enforcement of
recently passed anti-graft laws, we are cleansing our
bureaucracy and corporate sector of the taint of graft
and corruption. Through strict and equal application of
laws on economic reform, we assure every
entrepreneur an equal chance in his business
undertakings.
We are reforming the legal system and the
judiciary so that every individual stands equal before
the law, whoever his adversary in litigation may be.
Both the police and the military have undergone reform
and have proven themselves to be faithful to the
Constitution and to the democratic process. They have
the encouragement of my Government and the
Indonesian people as they continue reforming
themselves.
We will see to it, however, that those who have
perpetrated human rights violations, including those
who carried out the gross human rights violations in
East Timor in the wake of the popular consultation, are
brought to justice. Thus, immediately after assuming
office, President Megawati Soekarnoputri signed an
amending presidential decree that would enable,
starting next month, an ad hoc human rights court to
adjudicate cases of human rights abuses prior to and
following the popular consultation.
These are the main lines of our democratic
response to the many and formidable challenges that
Indonesia must contend with. I have no illusions that
they will be met without difficulty and occasional
setbacks, but I have faith in the rightness of working
for human relationships that are based on the equality
of individual human worth. It is the decent, enlightened
thing to do. I therefore have no doubt that, ultimately,
these measures will yield sufficiently positive results to
move us forward on the road of development.
I am no less confident that the democratic
response will be just as effective in addressing the
global challenges of our time. Consider the problem of
armed conflicts in various parts of the world. The use
of violence against other human beings, whether
carried out through nuclear weapons or through small
arms, is an assertion of a view that those others have no
equal right to life. That is why violence is escalating
everywhere and that is why there are terrorists —
madmen who regard the lives of innocent people as
worthless compared to their political agenda. In a
democratic setting, where everyone is committed to
equality and every human life is as precious as any
other, violence cannot thrive, certainly not on a
massive scale.
If the nuclear disarmament agenda has not been
moving forward, it is because the nuclear Powers enjoy
a real advantage over everybody else and those that are
nuclear-capable strive to become nuclear Powers
themselves. Inequality thus becomes an incentive for
nuclear proliferation. In a democratic setting, that
incentive is not available.
The same is true with respect to the endeavours to
reform the United Nations, particularly the Security
Council. So long as the present permanent members
see others as not equal to themselves and act on that
basis, there will never be equitable representation on
the Council. To say that we are reforming the world
Organization in order to make it more democratic is to
put the cart before the horse. First, let us all embrace
democracy and then it will not be difficult to reform
the United Nations.
In the economic sphere, the fundamental
challenge is simply to create a level playing field for
all nations, whether it be in trade or international
financial flows. We may all be paying lip service to the
sovereign equality of all nations, but if a reality check
shows that multilateralism is on the wane, that in fact
means that a good number of developed nations do not
really believe that the developing countries thus
deprived are their equals.
International financial flows for development will
resume, the debt burden of poor countries will be eased
and barriers to the exports of developing countries will
6

be lifted if and when the entire developed world
sincerely regards the developing countries as true
equals, and not as recipients of charity. Since people in
developing countries, particularly those that are most
vulnerable, are down today, they need a helping hand
to raise them to a position commensurate with their
dignity as equal human beings. In this regard, a special
case could be made for the teeming millions in the
countries of Africa, a continent that has already given
so much of itself to the rest of the world.
The principle of equality among all human beings
must be applied as well in the use of natural resources
and its profound impact on the environment. It would
be the cruellest form of inequality if the present
imbalances in the use of resources among nations were
left unaddressed and if the present generation were to
use the earth’s resources and leave nothing to sustain
future generations of humanity.
This yearning for democracy has been with us for
a long time. It is the spirit behind every reform
movement, the French and American revolutions and
the struggle of colonized countries for independence,
Indonesia among them.
This is the spirit to which the first generation of
leaders of Asia and Africa gave voice in Bandung in
1955. It guided the founding and the growth of the
Non-Aligned Movement and brought about the demise
of apartheid.
In my region, South-East Asia it gave rise to the
birth and growth of the Association of South-East
Asian Nations (ASEAN), just as it earlier ushered in
the founding and enlargement of the United Nations. It
is what we need today to reform the United Nations, to
make it a more effective instrument of global peace and
development. It is what we need to translate into
concrete reality the provisions of the Millennium
Declaration. And, indeed, the democratic spirit is what
we need in order to wage an effective struggle against
the dark forces of international terrorism. Without that
spirit, we can only fail.
The best course, therefore, would be to launch
collective action on the basis of the United Nations
Charter. For this war against international terrorism to
be able to cover all fronts and to be sustainable and
imbued with long-term legitimacy, it is imperative that
the United Nations play an active and primary role.
The global campaign should be complemented at the
regional level by coordinated efforts such as those
launched by ASEAN just over a week ago. In that way,
we will ensure that our response to terrorism is a
democratic one.
Indonesia has consistently emphasized the role of
the United Nations in addressing the unfolding
developments in Afghanistan. It therefore welcomes
the adoption yesterday by the Security Council of
resolution 1378 (2001), for this development represents
manifest recognition of the need to enhance political
and diplomatic efforts to find a comprehensive solution
to the Afghan crisis. At the same time, however, it is
important to underline that the role of the United
Nations can only be to support the efforts of the
Afghan people themselves, most notably in the
establishment of a new and transitional administration
that is broad-based, multi-ethnic and representative of
all the Afghan people. For its part, Indonesia is
committed to supporting the United Nations in these
noble endeavours. Indonesia stands ready to contribute
to any future peacekeeping operations needed to
support peace-building in Afghanistan.
To my mind there is no question of whether the
democratic response will work as a way of resolving
this problem and all the other global problems of our
time. Nothing else will work. The question is whether
we are courageous, sincere and enlightened enough to
apply it.
History, it has been said, is a race between
enlightenment and catastrophe. Let us become
enlightened now, before catastrophe overtakes us.





"
56,2001,BHR,"﻿This session is taking place amid feelings of sadness
and grief that prevail following the terrorist acts of 11
September that befell the United States. They
victimized the thousands, from more than 80 countries,
who were working in the World Trade Center in the
City of New York when the vicious attack took place,
and also resulted in great material and economic
damage.
My country, the State of Bahrain, moved quickly
to condemn the terrorist attacks in New York, just a
few kilometres from the Headquarters of the United
Nations, and in Washington, D.C. The Emir of Bahrain,
Shaikh Hamad Bin Isa Al-Khalifa, expressed to
Mr. George W. Bush, President of the United States of
America, and to the friendly people of the United
States of America the deep condolences of the Emir,
the Government and the people of the State of Bahrain
for the victims of these wicked attacks, which run
counter to the teachings of all divine religions as well
as the basic tenets of humanity and the standards of
cultural values.
The State of Bahrain has supported the
international alliance against terrorism. It has offered
its cooperation as a participant in efforts and measures
to eliminate terrorism and terrorists as well as their
havens and financial resources. We have done so out of
our firm and principled position against terrorism and
our rejection of all forms of violence and extremism.
Such violence and extremism contradict the teachings
of true Islam and its tolerant values, as well as all lofty
cultural and human values in which we believe and
which we support.
The State of Bahrain also followed and
participated in the debates on combating terrorism
during this session of the General Assembly. It shares
the opinion of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
that the shocking events of 11 September have united
the world against terrorism, as demonstrated by the
condemnation of those horrific attacks expressed by
millions of people from all societies. We also share the
Secretary-General’s opinion that, because of its unique
structure, the United Nations has an important role to
play in mobilizing the international community in
countering and combating terrorism.
As part of its policy of cooperation with
international efforts, the State of Bahrain welcomed
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which dealt
27

with the issue of terrorism, in particular operative
paragraph 6, which requests Member States to report to
the Security Council Committee within 90 days on the
steps taken to implement the resolution.
While expressing our feelings of sadness at the
horror of the events of 11 September, we must also
warn against the danger of exploiting the events to link
terrorism to Islam. Islam is a religion of amity and
tolerance, and we would like to warn against the
danger of stirring up hostility against Muslims and of
igniting a conflict between religions and civilizations,
instead of dialogue and interaction among them for the
good of all societies and people of different races and
beliefs. In this context, we are pleased to welcome the
position taken by the United States of America and
other friendly countries in calling on their citizens to
refrain from harming their residents or citizens of Arab
and Muslim descent and reaffirming the spirit of
tolerance, interaction and dialogue among religions and
cultures.
The United Nations, which is the ideal tool for
confronting international terrorism, faces other
challenges that stand in the way of cooperation for
prosperity, economic and social development and the
building of a world in which justice, peace and equality
prevail.
In this regard, this year the United Nations held
several special sessions of the General Assembly, one
on human settlements and the other on HIV/AIDS, as
well as a Conference on small arms. The Economic and
Social Council also convened conferences on
information technology, the eradication of poverty and
financing for development, as well as the World
Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, which was hosted
by the Republic of South Africa.
The State of Bahrain endorsed the United Nations
Millennium Declaration, and today — on the basis of
its deep-rooted civilization and sustained revival aimed
at strengthening the foundations of the modern State,
attaining comprehensive development, further
invigorating the mechanisms of civil society and public
institutions in order to enable its citizens to understand
current issues and the need for further advancement —
it reaffirms its determination to continue shouldering
its national, regional and international responsibilities,
with a view to achieving the common purposes and
principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations
and the Millennium Declaration.
In this context, His Highness Shaikh Hamad Bin
Isa Al-Khalifa, Emir of the State of Bahrain, took the
initiative to establish a national committee that
includes representatives from all sectors of Bahraini
society. This committee prepared a draft Charter for
national action, which was approved in a free
referendum by a majority of 98.4 per cent of the people
of Bahrain, and was ratified by His Highness the Emir
in February this year. This Charter is part of a
comprehensive plan to develop Bahraini society,
update its systems and institutions and transform it into
a modern State capable of participating effectively in
the new world order and of facing the challenges and
requirements of the era.
This historic step was coupled with a number of
measures to improve and update constitutional and
democratic institutions, reaffirm the rule of law,
achieve justice, equality and equal opportunities and
enhance popular participation. Foremost among these
are developments in the field of human rights, which
have confirmed the participation of women and
enhanced their role in civil society, including their
right to vote and to run for elected office, as well as the
establishment of the Human Rights Committee of the
Shura Council and the establishment of the Supreme
Council for Women. The Council’s mandate includes,
inter alia, proposing public policies in the field of
development and enhancing the role of women in civic
and constitutional State institutions. Proud of its
accomplishments in the political, economic and social
fields and reiterating its determination to press ahead
with its comprehensive development plans to build a
modern State capable of reaffirming its international
position and consolidating its relations with various
countries of the world, the State of Bahrain would also
like to express its thanks and appreciation for the
support given by many States of our Organization to
the worthy steps taken by His Highness the Emir.
Bahrain’s determination to imbue its relations
with others with a spirit of friendship and cooperation
is evidenced by its fraternal, amicable and close
relations with brotherly and friendly States. Such
relations are based on mutual respect, non-interference
in the internal affairs of others and the promotion of
good-neighbourly relations and cooperation among
States. In this respect, it is worth noting the position of
both the State of Bahrain and the State of Qatar on the
28

judgement handed down by the International Court of
Justice on 16 March this year, which brought to an end
the border dispute between the two brotherly countries.
The statements issued by the leaders of both countries
said that the judgement, which was accepted by the two
countries, had opened a new page in relations between
them, based as they are on agreement and cooperation
aimed at achieving their common interests, and that it
represented the triumph of international legitimacy and
the principles of international law.
It is regrettable that the ramifications of the
dangerous events witnessed in the Gulf region over the
past 20 years constitute an ongoing threat to the
security and stability of the region and an obstacle to
its development and growth. The State of Bahrain,
which would like to see regional and international
security prevail, especially in the Gulf region, which
has strategic importance and in which various countries
of the world have vital interests, calls once again upon
Iraq to cooperate with the United Nations and to fully
implement the relevant Security Council resolutions, in
particular those relating to weapons of mass
destruction and to the release of Kuwaiti prisoners of
war and detainees and those of other nationalities, so
that efforts to lift the sanctions and to end the suffering
of its brotherly people may succeed.
The State of Bahrain also hopes that, in the light
of the positive developments in relations between the
countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the
Islamic Republic of Iran, a peaceful solution can be
reached in the current dispute between the latter and
the United Arab Emirates over the three islands,
Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, all of which
belong to the United Arab Emirates. The State of
Bahrain approves of and welcomes the direct contacts
that have taken place between the two neighbouring
countries and hopes that the dispute will be settled by
peaceful means in accordance with the principles of
international law, including referral to the International
Court of Justice.
Since the current Israeli Government came to
power, the Middle East has experienced serious
developments that have brought back conditions of
hostility and confrontation such as engulfed the region
prior to the beginning of the Madrid peace process in
1991. This has come about through Israel’s aggression
against the Palestinian people and its oppression,
economic isolation and blockades of all the territory
under Palestinian authority.
The peace process based on Security Council
resolutions, in particular resolutions 242 (1967) and
338 (1973), and on the Madrid terms of reference —
specifically the principle of land for peace — is at an
impasse. The explosive situation in the Palestinian
Authority’s territories, with all its inherent risks,
including the threat to security and stability in the
Middle East and to the interests of the Authority and
other States, requires the international community, and
primarily the sponsors of the peace process, to shoulder
their responsibilities to put the peace process back on
track so that its objectives may be achieved.
This can be done only through the full
implementation of Security Council resolutions calling
for a complete withdrawal from the Arab territories
occupied by Israel in the Syrian Golan Heights up to
the boundaries of 4 June 1967 and from the remaining
occupied territories of the Republic of Lebanon, and
through full recognition of the legitimate rights of the
Palestinian people, including its rights of return and to
the establishment of its own independent State with
Jerusalem as its capital. In this regard, we welcome the
statement made by President Bush of the United States
of America on the right of the Palestinian people —
supported by the European Union, the permanent
members of the Security Council and the international
community — to establish a Palestinian State.
The role of the United Nations and the reform of
its machinery to enable it to face its challenges and
overcome them collectively are among the priorities of
the Charter that were reinforced by the Millennium
Declaration. The Declaration calls on us to uphold the
rule of law nationally and internationally, to respect
human rights and to conduct international relations in
such a way as to preserve world security, peace,
development and stability.
In praising the role of the United Nations, I
should also like to take this opportunity to convey my
warm and sincere congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan,
whom the Member States have unanimously re-elected
as Secretary-General for a second term in office in
recognition of his tireless efforts to allow the
Organization to play its full role and to achieve its
objectives. Through those efforts, the Secretary-
General and the United Nations under his leadership
have fully deserved the Nobel Peace Prize for this year
in appreciation of their great contribution to
maintaining international peace and security. I
29

congratulate the Secretary-General and the United
Nations on that honour.
I also have the pleasure to extend to you, Sir, and
to your friendly country, the Republic of Korea, our
congratulations on your election as President of the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. I express
the hope that you will succeed in carrying out your
tasks. I also thank your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri
of Finland, President of the General Assembly at its
fifty-fifth session, and commend his invaluable efforts
in conducting the proceedings of that session and of the
special sessions held in conjunction with it.
We believe firmly that the destiny of the human
race is a common destiny, given that we all live in one
world. We are therefore duty-bound to preserve that
world and to protect it from the threats of war,
international terrorism, conflict, disease and poverty. It
is incumbent on us, the peoples of the United Nations,
as stated in the Charter, to choose to practice tolerance
and to live according to the will of Almighty God as
peoples that cooperate in the pursuit of friendship,
justice, peace and security.



"
56,2001,CHL,"﻿Mr. President, I wish to congratulate you on your
election, which is a mark of recognition of the
Republic of Korea and of your distinguished personal
record in the public and academic spheres. I am
26

confident that, under your guidance, the work of the
Assembly will be successful for the States Members of
the United Nations.
Today New York is receiving us as it always has.
Why, then, did we witness, two months ago, a terrorist
act that shook the world? If I may be allowed to say so,
it is because New York is the city that best represents
the values that the twentieth century defended at the
cost of tremendous suffering. It is a city that welcomes
those persecuted by intolerance of all kinds; respects
all nationalities, races and religions, all ideas, and the
freedom to think and to create; offers opportunities for
all to succeed; and protects individual rights through
democracy.
It is not by chance that it was here in New York,
on the banks of the East River, that the Headquarters of
the United Nations was erected. It was built here
because the values of this city are the values of our
universal Organization of nations.
The terrorist attack on New York was therefore an
attack on the unity of our nations. It was our values,
our security and our faith in a better world — a world
based on dialogue and cooperation — that were the
targets of terrorist fanaticism. That is why we have felt
so close to the United States during this period: its pain
is our pain; its grief is our grief; and its response to
terrorism is our response.
We are here to reiterate our condolences to the
people and to the Government of the United States. The
sight of thousands of persons bearing photographs of
their lost family members amid the smoking ruins gave
rise to a profound sense of empathy among Chileans.
Hence we wish to express our admiration for the
unity and courage of the American people and of the
city of New York. We pay tribute to the Government of
the United States and to President Bush, who, faced
with an attack of this magnitude, has managed to act on
the basis of reason rather than emotion in seeking
diplomatic support and in building an extremely broad-
based coalition.
The holding of this General Assembly marks a
sound defeat for the terrorist cause, which seeks to
replace dialogue with the cult of violence, and reflects
our renewed faith in this world forum.
We are here to extend to the Secretary-General
and to the United Nations our warmest congratulations
on having been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, which
this year has recognized the outstanding contribution of
the United Nations to our quest for peace.
Many have remarked that the twentieth century
has been one of the most violent and deadly in the
history of humankind. However, the twentieth century
was also the century that produced major advances,
improved our quality of life and eliminated great evils
forever.
The First World War was followed by the League
of Nations and by a new awareness of the fundamental
equality of peoples. The Second World War was
necessary to put an end to fascism in its most
monstrous manifestations, but also out of it emerged
the United Nations, the decolonization process, the
Bretton Woods economic agreements and a new
awareness of the fundamental equality of human
beings. The cold war brought about a clash between
two political and economic visions, but, once ended, it
left in its wake a new awareness of democracy and
individual freedoms.
At the dawn of the twenty-first century, we are
confronting a new conflict of global proportions. Our
first objective must be to put an end forever to
fanaticism and to the kind of intolerance that is
translated into terror.
Chile believes that this vast diplomatic alliance
must also pursue other objectives. Like other victorious
coalitions throughout history, it must begin to ask now
what new progress it will seek to achieve for humanity
after its victory. We must start to envision the new
world that must emerge from this tragic period in our
history — a world that is better organized and that
shows more solidarity. Indeed, the terrorists will have
achieved their objective if, as a result of their attacks,
the globalization process changes direction and begins
a trend towards less freedom and decreased
international trade.
On the other hand, as the Secretary-General has
so rightly said, in order to achieve success in the
globalization process, we must learn how to manage it
better and, above all, how to manage it better together.
I think that it is very important to understand that
of the 6 billion people in the world, half are struggling
to live on less than $2 a day. They have no personal
computer; they have never made a telephone call. They
have never seen these things. Though wealth has
increased, there has been no significant decrease in the
27

number of poor people, and the gap between rich and
poor is daily becoming increasingly difficult to bridge.
The balance of our world is becoming precarious, and
we must address this issue.
The recent tragic events have shown us that no
nation on earth that can consider itself invulnerable and
that genuine security can be attained only through
cooperation among peoples and States. What makes
our citizens vulnerable today — besides terrorism —
are such phenomena as ignorance, hunger, drug
trafficking, climate change, uncontrolled population
movements, and the erratic flow of $1.5 trillion every
day in financial markets. We must devise ways of
tackling these phenomena.
Chile therefore supports the coalition of countries
that, in exercise of the right of self-defence, have
embarked on a campaign aimed at eradicating
terrorism. At stake here are the universal principles and
values that we share and that we must defend. These
actions, therefore, are not targeting the Afghan people
or the Arab world, nor are they aimed at any particular
religion, all of which we deeply respect and admire.
In order to put an end to terrorism, there is a need
for broad, ongoing and resolute cooperation. That is
why Chile has supported the responses decided upon in
this Organization. We are actively implementing
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We are
already a party to the 12 global conventions against
terrorism, and today we will deposit with the
Secretary-General the respective instruments of
ratification. My country has ratified all United Nations
agreements.
Similarly, we are working to coordinate
America’s response. We are partners in a
comprehensive dialogue to review and improve each
country’s domestic legislation and legal order to root
out the terrorist threat.
We reaffirm the need to strengthen measures to
promote mutual confidence and cooperation in the area
of defence. In that regard, Argentina and Chile have
standardized their data on military expenditures, and
we are working towards the same objective with our
neighbour Peru.
Yet we cannot conceal our frustration at the
difficulties blocking progress towards limiting the
manufacture of and illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons.
We also feel obliged to say that we view with
horror the deteriorating situation in the Middle East.
That conflict poses a threat to international security.
Like other delegations that have spoken today, we hope
for recognition of the inalienable right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination, including the
right to establish an independent State, as well as the
right of Israel to live within secure and internationally
recognized borders and at peace with its neighbours.
Recent acts of international terrorism have
affected our economies, which are the basis for social
progress for our peoples. Fear has gripped the markets.
The only certainty today is that uncertainty will prevail
in the future so long as there is armed action because of
this conflict. If that proves to be the case, and if
international markets fall, terrorism will have achieved
an unexpected victory.
I therefore want to say that institutions such as
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank
must address the concerns of the international political
bodies and devote special attention to the additional
costs of the response to terrorism. We are confident of
success at the Doha, Qatar, ministerial meeting, which
will be discussing ways to make trade freer. We want to
address items of concern to all: agricultural products,
services, intellectual property, anti-dumping and the
settlement of trade disputes. They are all on the
agenda, and they must all be addressed.
The great coalition assembled to combat
terrorism must also promote cooperation among
Governments in order to ensure that no areas are
excluded from globalization. That is the best way to
guarantee security for us all. To create a safer world,
we need more and better globalization, not more
autarky. We need more and better democracy, not more
dictatorial authoritarianism. We must do a better job of
protecting human rights. Here, I believe we must act
preventively to safeguard our democracies and to
ensure respect for human rights.
Democracy is strengthened with each free and
secret election with the participation of an informed
electorate. It is strengthened with higher levels of
justice and social equality. To restore people’s
confidence in democracy, democracy must be
complemented by an end to social injustice. Neither
lack of development nor specific cultural
characteristics can be used as a pretext to justify
curtailing rights recognized in the Universal
28

Declaration of Human Rights. The fight against
discrimination and intolerance must be a frontal attack
on poverty.
We need institutions that ensure respect for
human rights. Hence the importance of the
International Criminal Court, which should serve as an
key instrument for the universal protection of
fundamental human rights, whatever the status of the
violator.
I have come from afar, from the South of the
world, with an optimistic vision. Before leaving my
country, I met with young people of varied origins and
with dignitaries of different religions. I met with
Catholic and Protestant bishops; with Jewish and
Muslim representatives: all those with whom we share
an annual joint religious service — unique in the
world — to celebrate our national independence. I saw
in all of them — Jews and Muslims; Catholics,
Protestants and freethinkers — a renewed capacity for
understanding and comprehension that I am sure is
shared among western and eastern countries, among
ethnic groups and religions — in short, among all those
here today — with the objective of attaining our
common objective of peace and progress.
Let us learn from our experience in assembling
this great global coalition to respond politically and
militarily to the terrorist threat. Let us make it into a
coalition that also seeks other goals. In this coalition,
all are important, irrespective of creed, race, political
history or ideology; in the coalition there are no small
or large countries.
Let us ensure that international institutions take
due account of the interests of all countries, large,
medium-sized and small. Let us ensure that this grand
coalition will bring us security not only against
terrorism but also against hunger, vulnerability and
discrimination. I propose that we should update the
institutions that the founders of the United Nations
created here 50 years ago.
That would be the most fitting tribute to the
victims of terrorism and the best gauge of our
commitment to the weak and powerless of the Earth.




"
56,2001,ECU,"﻿I congratulate you, Sir, on your well-deserved election
as President of the General Assembly. You are a worthy
representative of the Republic of Korea, a country very
close to my own through our important ties of
friendship and cooperation. I also congratulate your
predecessor on the highly efficient and responsible way
in which he oversaw the work of the previous session
of the Assembly.
The Government of Ecuador received with
special satisfaction the news of the award of the 2001
Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations and the
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. We congratulate the
Secretary-General on this well-deserved recognition of
his work, which has promoted among Member States
the benefits of international association and solidarity.
This session of the Assembly began in an
atmosphere of profound distress for all members of the
international community. The tragically terrible
terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September
are shocking to the human conscience. Those whose
perverse and irrational actions took the lives of
thousands of innocent people — including many
Ecuadorians — committed a grave attack on
international peace and security.
From this rostrum, I wish to affirm to the people
and the Government of the United States of America
the profound condolences and solidarity of the people
and the Government of Ecuador following this
immense tragedy and to reiterate our strongest
condemnation of those criminal acts, which have done
violence to all peoples, as well as to universal
principles and values.
That is why Ecuador — a peace-loving country
convinced of the predominant role of the United
Nations as the key institution for decisions affecting
the world — praises the action of the General
Assembly and the Security Council in response to
terrorism, particularly the Council’s adoption of
resolution 1373 (2001), which contains the guidelines
for all Member States to work urgently and in concert
to prevent and suppress terrorist acts. Likewise, the
international community must conclude negotiations on
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism
to strengthen the relevant judicial framework with
concrete measures to prevent, sanction and combat this
scourge. Ecuador is committed at the national, regional
and international levels to the fight against terrorism in
all its forms and manifestations.
In the final years of the twentieth century, great
changes took place in the world, which led to new
international trends, especially in terms of the process
of globalization and threats to international peace and
security.
The developing countries, such as my own, began
adapting their national structures to deal with the
demands of a decidedly competitive environment.
However, it must be said that it is obvious that the
adjustments and changes those countries have made to
their policies and strategies are not enough in
themselves to achieve complete results as long as the
structural causes of the disparity between the level of
development of highly industrialized economies and
that of economies in need of capital and advanced
technology persist. That disparity continues to widen
because of financial difficulties caused by unstable
short-term capital flows, persistent external debt and
obstacles to truly international trade.
There are signs that current international
economic trends are far from providing the equilibrium
and justice needed to overcome the unfavourable
burdens inherited from the twentieth century. Poverty
has grown at alarming rates in all regions. International
organized crime has exacerbated violence and
insecurity in society. Massive international migration
towards developed regions continues to increase. These
phenomena, along with many others, result from the
lack of real, universal agreements to assist the
development of human beings.
21

The problems that the world faces today respect
no national borders. They are threats demanding not
unilateral action but responses based on solidarity and
concerted action. That interdependence is what enabled
the heads of Government and State, at the Millennium
Assembly, to agree on making the United Nations, the
supreme multilateral forum, a suitable and effective
instrument to fight for the development of all peoples
of the world; to fight against poverty, ignorance and
disease; to fight against injustice, violence, terror and
crime; and to fight against the deterioration and
destruction of the planet. They also committed
themselves to freeing all people from the scourge of
war, to eradicating the dangers posed by weapons of
mass destruction and to strengthening respect for the
rule of law in national and international affairs.
Ecuador, as a country that believes in and
practices the peaceful settlement of international
disputes, regrets and condemns conflicts between
States, as well as those within States caused by civil
war, ethnic conflict or other reasons. The Government
of Ecuador is concerned by the uncontrolled violence
occurring between the peoples of Palestine and Israel,
which continues to reap a tragic harvest of death and
destruction. We recognize the right of the Palestinian
people to a free and independent State, as well as the
State of Israel’s right to exist within secure and
internationally recognized borders. Ecuador reiterates
its appeal to both parties to quickly return to peace
negotiations.
Last August, Ecuador assumed the presidency of
the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. Its
leadership is guided by its profound commitment to the
cause of general and complete disarmament under
effective international control, which would make it
possible to foster peace and confidence among nations.
We are witnessing the intensification of a
phenomenon as old as humanity itself, undoubtedly
linked to the historical development of civilization. I
am referring to the enormous challenge posed by the
increase in human migration, especially from the
countries of the South towards the North.
While migration has been positive in that it has
contributed to fruitful exchange between various
peoples and has deepened dialogue processes and
mutual enrichment between diverse cultures, in most
cases the reason for it stems from the individual’s
desire to seek better living conditions and broader
economic prospects. We cannot think of human history
without the constant and ever present phenomenon of
migration, and the current era is no exception. In the
present age of the globalization of markets and the
possibility of a new round of multilateral trade
negotiations in the World Trade Organization (WTO),
the liberalization of the administration of services
through the free movement of persons must be
emphasized.
Today many developing countries of the world,
afflicted by the serious consequences of economic
crisis and the prevalence of structural failures that are
difficult to overcome, have become net producers of
migrants, men and women who feel compelled to seek
broader horizons legally. Ecuador is one of those
countries because of the most serious economic crisis
of its recorded history, exacerbated by external factors
that changed the momentum of the national
development process. Internal and external factors
merged in recent years, deepening this crisis, which we
are overcoming in a positive way at enormous
sacrifice.
While migration tends to be a positive
phenomenon in terms of historic objectives, the
consequences for individuals are painful and stir our
conscience. Because of that, my country has taken a
series of actions to protect the rights of migrants and
their families. With the support of the International
Organization for Migration, we have held several
meetings in which the State and civil society have
participated. They have enabled us, on the one hand, to
have direct testimony about the serious problems of
this group of individuals who have left their countries
voluntarily to find better opportunities and, on the
other hand, to obtain concrete commitments aimed at
protecting and defending human rights. I wish to
underline the transnational nature of the migration
problem, which requires active cooperation between
countries of origin and countries receiving immigrants,
as well as international bodies. In this context, I am
happy to point out that Ecuador and Spain signed an
agreement aimed at regulating migration, which
undoubtedly has been beneficial for migrant citizens
and signatory countries.
Ecuador appeals to all Governments and sectors
of civil society, but particularly to those of the
developed world — receivers of migrant workers - to
redouble their efforts aimed at protecting the rights of
this vulnerable sector of society in a non-
22

discriminatory way, conscious of all the positive and
fruitful aspects that the migration phenomenon brings
to the general development of countries, as
demonstrated by European history of recent centuries
and the integration of the Americas into the West.
If the twentieth century was the stage for some of
the greatest humanitarian tragedies recorded by history,
it is true that in that period we also witnessed the birth
of a new global awareness of the urgency to protect and
promote human rights and to preserve man’s home,
land and environment.
My country has fully assumed this global
challenge. We are signatories to the main instruments
on this important item at both the international and the
hemispheric level, and we have national tools that
enable us to achieve such objectives. The National Plan
on Human Rights, adopted as a State policy in June
1998 by civil society and the State, is perhaps the most
innovative and visionary instrument that has been
developed in our country. We hope that it will enable
us to promote a real culture of tolerance and respect
between the ethnic, social and cultural groups of our
society. With this plan, Ecuador also complied with the
mandate of the 1993 Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action.
In keeping with all the above-mentioned points,
Ecuador places importance on one of the mandates of
the Carabobo Act, signed in July 2001 by the
Presidents of the Andean Community of Nations, and
has begun work on a draft Andean Charter of Human
Rights, aimed at consolidating the ideas of respect for
and the promotion of the fundamental rights and
freedoms of the individual in the specific areas of
culture and ethnic plurality characteristic of the
Andean subregion. Ecuador was a pioneer in this
important matter when, in 1980, within the subregional
framework, it spurred on the adoption of the Riobamba
Charter, which includes among its postulates the
protection of human rights as an international
obligation of all States and the condition that legitimate
joint action carried out in protecting such rights must
not violate the principle of non-intervention. Within
this same context, Ecuador signed the Rome Statute of
the International Court of Justice of July 1998, and it is
taking measures for its prompt ratification.
Turning to the WTO and the Free Trade Area of
the Americas (FTAA), there is no doubt that one of the
most important items on the foreign policy agenda of
States is international economic relations. Ecuador
wishes to express some views on this, at the moment
when the Fourth WTO Ministerial Conference is taking
place in Qatar.
Ecuador deems it fundamental to pursue the
process of opening up trade, reducing tariffs and
eliminating unnecessary trade barriers. However, my
country also shares the doubts of some developing
countries about the advantages of launching a new
round of multilateral trade negotiations when the
commitments of the Uruguay Round have not yet been
fully implemented, particularly those relating to the
reduction and the elimination of agricultural subsidies
and to agreement on special and differential treatment
provisions in favour of developing countries. These are
priority items of interest for Ecuador, as is the
expansion of openness in agricultural trade.
We emphasize the necessary reform required by
the WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding to
strengthen the implementation regime of the decisions
of the relevant ad hoc groups and the appeals body. For
example, Ecuador was never able to obtain the
compensation to which it was entitled, in spite of
having won the banana dispute in all the proceedings
before the WTO Dispute Settlement Body and an
arbitration award of $201.4 million annually, the
amount of the damages caused to my country by an
illegal import, sales and distribution scheme of that
product in Europe.
Given our own experience in this dispute, we
believe that compensation must be binding, if we are
really speaking about free markets in the full sense of
the word, and that retaliatory measures in the same
sector or in cross-sectors is not sufficient to repair the
damages caused, particularly to the economies of
developing countries. It would also be worth evaluating
other types of compensation, such as increasing
technical cooperation, as a European country is
proposing at this time with respect to Ecuador.
Progress in trade negotiations and the fulfilment
of commitments already made will make it possible for
us to have an international economic and financial
climate conducive to investment and to growth of the
world economy, which will make a positive
contribution to social and human development. These
same proposals give us hope in the negotiations of the
FTAA — the Trade Negotiations Committee of which
Ecuador is currently president. Our efforts take into
23

account the various positions of countries, as well as
their different levels of development and sizes of their
economies, since we must seek consensus on decisions
in a way that makes all the parties involved feel that
their interests are guaranteed. For least developed
countries, the establishment of a hemisphere-wide free-
trade zone poses a challenge and at the same time
offers an exceptional opportunity to be fully integrated
into world economy in this new phase.
I turn next to the question of external debt and
development financing. The enormous limitations
faced by heavily indebted developing countries such as
Ecuador, resulting from disproportionately large
external-debt servicing costs and from persistent
obstacles to marketing our exports, work against
national efforts to engender economic stability and
sustainable development. Ecuador’s total external debt
now stands at about 64 per cent of our gross domestic
product and nearly 40 per cent of our national budget;
this has a negative impact on the financing of social
development projects.
External debt is mortgaging the economic present
and future of developing countries; it has extremely
adverse effects because it devours vast resources that
would otherwise be used in the fight against poverty, in
promoting public health and education, and in meeting
many other urgent social needs. The situation thus has
an increasing negative effect on market-oriented
national policies and the political and democratic
stability of many countries. It is therefore time for the
international community to adopt effective, fair,
lasting, development-oriented measures so as to make
progress in easing this serious problem — a problem
that highly indebted medium-income countries too are
facing.
Ecuador attaches the greatest importance to the
International Conference on Financing for
Development to be held next March at Monterrey. It
will be a good opportunity to define, from the
financing perspective, a new kind of world cooperation
that will effectively support development, especially
the development of the countries of the South.
I am pleased to announce the conclusion and
signature of an agreement between the World
Meteorological Organization and the Government of
Ecuador on the establishment at Guayaquil of an
international centre for research on El Niño. I urgently
appeal to the United Nations and its specialized
agencies, to the international community and to
international and regional financial institutions for
resolute cooperation to ensure that the centre begins its
work promptly.
Finally, as an Ecuadorian, I wish to address the
question of the Colombian conflict. I wish to say that
my country is following closely the internal political
conflict in Colombia and the unfolding of a peace
process in that country. In conformity with our policy
of promoting dialogue and negotiation as the best way
to overcome problems, we have frequently stated our
unreserved political support for the Colombian
Government’s efforts to reach a negotiated peace with
armed irregular groups operating in its country.
Ecuador applauds the peace initiatives of President
Andrés Pastrana and expresses the hope that they will
be meet with a matching response from those groups.
Peace in Colombia is a top priority throughout the
Americas; it should also be a top priority for the
international community. It is in the interest of all to
help ensure that the Colombian conflict does not spread
to the rest of the subregion.
Ecuador has committed itself to a broad and
imaginative programme of development for our areas
near the Colombian border; these are aimed at
substantial improvements in the living conditions of
the inhabitants, with a view to eliminating the severe
poverty that gives rise to the violence of drug
trafficking. That programme has recently received
major backing from the international community
through the advisory group set up last month at
Brussels. I appeal to our brethren and neighbours in
Colombia to join with us in similar programmes. I
urgently appeal too to developed countries to continue
to cooperate with such initiatives, which in the final
analysis are the best way to guarantee peace and
security.
The challenges facing mankind at the outset of
the twenty-first century must be tackled by all
countries, jointly and in solidarity. This is the
beginning of a new era for major international
decisions. The world Organization is the forum in
which we can carry out a vast mission: equitably to
solve global problems and to buttress collective
security. Ecuador again commits itself to work
ceaselessly to attain those noble goals.






"
56,2001,CHN,"﻿Mr. President, first of all, please allow me to warmly
congratulate you on your election as President of the
fifty-sixth session of the United Nations General
Assembly. I am confident that under your able
guidance and with the close cooperation of all
delegates, this session will be crowned with success. I
would also like to take this opportunity to express my
sincere thanks to Mr. Holkeri for what he did as
President of the last session of the General Assembly.
A year ago, the United Nations convened the
historic Millennium Summit. The United Nations
Millennium Declaration issued by the Summit
identifies the objectives for promoting world peace and
development in the new century.
International developments over the past year
demonstrate that more and more countries have opted
for increasing dialogue and cooperation, preserving
world peace and seeking common development. To be
sure, the cause of human progress still involves a long
and arduous effort. Factors of uncertainty in the
international situation are on the rise. More efforts
should be made to democratize international relations,
and there has been no marked change in the irrational
international economic order.
Terrorism is a widespread scourge that threatens
world peace and stability. We strongly condemn the
terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September,
and extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to
the families of the innocent victims, as well as to the
Government and the people of the United States. China
has always opposed all forms of terrorism. No matter
when, where or in what form terrorism strikes, and no
matter whom it is directed against, it should be met
with condemnation and responded to with counter-
strikes by the international community, which should
adopt a unified position on the matter.
China has taken an active part in international
cooperation against terrorism. In addition to joining
most of the international conventions against terrorism,
China has ratified the Shanghai Convention on
Combating Terrorism, Separatism and Extremism,
concluded by the member States of the Shanghai
Cooperation Organization.
China is in favour of a primary role for the United
Nations and the Security Council in the international
effort against terrorism. China supports the relevant
resolutions that have been adopted and is in favour of
closer cooperation and coordination among the various
countries concerned to this end.
China strongly believes that any military action
against terrorism should have a clearly defined target
and avoid harming innocent people. All such actions
should be consistent with the purposes and principles
of the Charter of the United Nations and other
universally recognized norms of international law, and
should serve the long-term interests of peace in the
region and the world at large.
China believes that terrorism is a tiny fringe of
extreme evil, representing neither one particular ethnic
group nor one particular religion. They must not,
therefore, be lumped together. China, too, is threatened
by terrorism. The “Eastern Turkestan” terrorist forces
are trained, equipped and financed by international
terrorist organizations. The fight against the “Eastern
Turkestan” group is an important aspect of the
international fight against terrorism.
19

In today’s world, the question of security is
becoming increasingly multifaceted and globalized.
Only enhanced international cooperation can help us
effectively cope with global security challenges and
bring about universal and lasting security. Countries
should endeavour to foster a new security concept,
based on mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and
collaboration. They should seek security through
mutual trust and pursue cooperation to their mutual
benefit so as to effectively reduce factors of insecurity.
The issue of arms control has always been closely
interrelated with that of security. In the face of the new
situation, we should go on working for the preservation
of the existing legal regime for international arms
control and disarmament and for the maintenance of
global strategic stability, without jeopardizing the
security of any country.
Tackling regional hot spots is vital to regional
and global security. We are following with deep
concern the current developments in the Middle East.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict that broke out in
September last year is continuing unabated. It poses a
grave threat to the Middle East peace process and to
regional stability. China supports the relevant United
Nations resolutions and the principle of land for peace.
It also supports the Palestinian people in their just
struggle to regain their legitimate national rights and
interests. We hope that the Israeli and Palestinian sides
will take constructive measures and closely coordinate
with the international community in its mediating
efforts so as to create conditions for easing the tension
and reactivating the peace process. China supports a
greater role for the Security Council in this respect.
We are concerned about the situation in South
Asia. Given the current complex situation, we hope
that the countries in the region will strengthen mutual
understanding and mutual trust and coexist in peace
and amity. As a neighbour of Afghanistan, we have
been following the changing Afghan situation closely.
We believe that, in order to find a solution to the
Afghan issue, the following principles should be
observed. First, the sovereignty, independence and
territorial integrity of Afghanistan should be ensured.
Secondly, the Afghan people should be allowed to
decide on a solution independently. Thirdly, the future
government in Afghanistan should be broad-based and
embody the interests of all ethnic groups in the
country; Afghanistan should live in amity with all
countries, particularly its neighbours. Fourthly, the
solution should serve peace and stability in the region.
Fifthly, the United Nations should play a more active
role.
Since the beginning of this year, the world
economy has clearly slowed down, and the situation
has been further aggravated by the incidents of 11
September. Developing countries are finding
themselves in increasingly dire straits. The
international community must act with a greater sense
of urgency and accord higher priority to development.
Developed countries should act more vigorously
to promote development. They should adopt effective
measures and make greater efforts to revitalize the
global economy. We hope that the developed countries
will demonstrate a broader vision and a cooperative
spirit in providing assistance to developing countries.
In recent years, anti-globalization activities in
many parts of the world have increased. In fact,
globalization is neither a panacea for development nor
a monster causing disaster. The appropriate response to
globalization should maximize its advantages and
minimize its disadvantages so that all countries can
come out winners and prosper side by side.
Globalization should benefit all people from all social
strata in all countries.
The United Nations has an irreplaceable role to
play in international cooperation in response to
globalization. It should increase its input in
development and work more effectively to fulfil the
development objectives set forth in the United Nations
Millennium Declaration.
China is supportive of the World Trade
Organization’s plans to launch a new round of
multilateral trade talks. It is our hope that the new
round will give full consideration to the concerns and
interests of the developing countries.
The Ninth Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
(APEC) Economic Leaders Meeting was held
successfully in October in Shanghai, China. The
meeting was convened at a critical moment, soon after
the incidents of 11 September, when prospects for the
global economy seemed grim. Focusing on the theme
“Meeting new challenges in the new century:
promoting common prosperity through participation
and cooperation”, the leaders conducted an in-depth
exchange of views and reached broad consensus.
Having boosted intra-APEC cooperation among the
20

members and reinforced their resolve to restore
economic growth, the meeting sent out a clear, positive
signal to markets throughout the world and took a
resolute step forward in advancing cooperation in the
Asia-Pacific region. The meeting will have a positive
and far-reaching impact on Asia-Pacific economic
cooperation.
President Jiang Zemin made clear to the world
China’s future objectives, guiding principles and
domestic and foreign policies in the important speech
that he delivered on 1 July this year. The principal task
for the Chinese people in the new century is to press
ahead with the modernization programme, work
towards the grand cause of national reunification,
safeguard world peace and promote common
development.
Indeed, the purpose of China’s foreign policy is
to safeguard world peace and promote common
development. China needs an environment of
friendship and good-neighbourliness and external
conditions of stability and prosperity. To achieve, and
safeguard, such an international environment serves
China’s national interests. It is also China’s duty as a
member of the international community.
We believe that all civilizations and social
systems in the world can, and should, exist side by side
on a long-term basis, complementing one another and
making progress together, in a spirit of seeking
common ground while putting aside differences.
We stand ready to engage in mutually beneficial
cooperation with all countries in the world on an equal
footing towards world peace and development, with the
aim of achieving common development. Our entry into
the World Trade Organization will usher in a
completely new phase of our opening-up process.
This year marks the thirtieth anniversary of the
restoration of China’s lawful seat in the United
Nations. Tremendous changes have since taken place in
the world, in China and in the United Nations. China’s
commitment to the Charter of the United Nations,
however, remains unchanged. In the new century,
China will, as always, vigorously support the work of
the United Nations and continue to work together with
other Member States for a better world.




"
56,2001,JOR,"﻿Let
me express our deep sadness at the human loss
resulting from the crash this morning of an American
aircraft in a Queens neighbourhood and our
condolences to the families of the victims.
I wish to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo and his
friendly country on his election as President of the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. Let me
also pay tribute to his predecessor for his able
stewardship of the last session.
Furthermore, I extend warm congratulations to
the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his re-
26

election for a second term of office, as well as on his
well-deserved award, jointly with the United Nations,
of the Nobel Peace Prize. That was an
acknowledgement of Mr. Annan’s remarkable track
record in serving the purposes and principles of the
Charter and a symbolic token of recognition of the
centrality and relevance of the vital role of the United
Nations in the world community.
This great city which hosts our world
Organization and the United States of America and its
people have been struck by a cowardly terrorist attack
that targeted innocent civilians. In truth, this act of
aggression was committed not just against the United
States but, in fact, against the entire international
community and humanity. For it seems that the larger
objective of the evil and dark forces that planned and
executed those atrocities was the terrorization and
intimidation of all of us and the precipitation of a
worldwide cultural and religious confrontation. Their
aim was to undermine and shatter our sense of common
confidence and the bonds that unite us by stripping us
of our own sense of security and driving us to deal with
each other in an atmosphere of mistrust, fear and
hatred.
One of the many painful impacts of those terrorist
attacks is the demonstration of the depth of
interdependence in our modern life. The repercussions
went beyond the United States. The victims belonged
to dozens of nations, including Jordan, and all of us
almost instantly felt the negative economic effects.
Thus the fight against terrorism should be
comprehensive. This means forging a unity of purpose
and determination to win this war on all fronts. It also
means exercising care and caution so that we do not
fall into the trap set by the terrorists. Indeed, our war
against terrorism is neither a religious war nor a clash
between one civilization and another — or even
between one nation and another.
Last 11 September, Jordan reaffirmed its long-
standing and clear position, which is anchored in its
firm policy of rejecting the use of terrorism in
international relations, irrespective of any argument
advanced, pretext invoked or label given. Thus, His
Majesty King Abdullah II declared Jordan’s categorical
condemnation of the terrorist attacks perpetrated
against the United States and Jordan’s support for the
international effort against terrorism. In the same vein,
His Majesty expressed resolve to safeguard the sanctity
of the Islamic faith from any abuse or distortion caused
by terrorism or terrorists, insisting that terrorists must
be deprived of any opportunity to hijack religion and to
misuse it to serve their purposes or advance their
agenda. In particular, terrorists must be barred from
provoking a confrontation between Islam and the rest
of the world.
The suppression and defeat of those pernicious
schemes require, among other things, the enhancement
of understanding among peoples and cultures. They
also demand a genuine respect for cultural diversity.
Human pluralism should, ideally, be a force of
enrichment and inspiration for the community of
nations. The world is perhaps pressed now more than
ever to launch a meaningful dialogue among
civilizations that highlights common denominators
with a view to promoting tolerance and reinforcing our
ability to coexist and interact in peace and harmony.
The United Nations system remains the appropriate
framework and venue for such a dialogue.
Islam and Muslims throughout history have
enriched human civilization. The contributions of
Muslim scholars in science, literature and culture in
general reached the heights they did due to a climate of
open-mindedness, tolerance and pluralism established
by Islam.
We in Jordan take pride in the true coexistence
and integration of our community life, which has been
fashioned over the past 14 centuries. Muslims and
Christians live side by side in national unity, where
religious pluralism is an enriching factor, making
Jordanian society a good example of social harmony
and interaction.
Terrorism will exploit political, economic and
social imbalances and the absence of justice to advance
its goals. Therefore, addressing the main causes of
despair, frustration and sense of injustice in a serious
manner is perhaps the most effective way to confront
terrorism and pre-empt its potential appeal and support.
We recognize that a truly effective international
effort to eradicate terrorism primarily requires, as far as
the Middle East region is concerned, a just and
acceptable resolution of the question of Palestine,
whose long-running implications on the ground remain
the chief source of pain and suffering across the region.
The current situation of constant killings and
destruction as a result of Israel’s practices of using
27

force against the Palestinian people and the siege of
their towns and communities constitute a constant
incitement that feeds escalation in a way that endangers
security and stability throughout the whole region.
Jordan firmly believes that the resolution of this
conflict will not be possible by the use of force or by
security and coercive measures. There is really no
alternative before the two sides but to return to the
negotiating table as equal partners and to seek a
settlement that ensures their legitimate rights and their
future. This option will remain elusive until parallel
mutual steps are adopted on the basis of the accords
and obligations agreed upon by both the Palestinian
and Israeli sides.
His Majesty King Abdullah II has been engaged
in enormous efforts to help the region break out of the
vicious circle engulfing it because of the ongoing
confrontations between the two sides. King Abdullah
has contributed positively to the intense international
contacts and efforts to achieve that goal. Those
endeavours have indeed led to the building of a full
international consensus on the requirements needed to
break the current deadlock. Those requirements
include, in the first place, ending the use of the Israeli
military machine against the Palestinian people, lifting
the blockade imposed on them and abandoning the
policy of assassinations and incursions into areas under
the control of the Palestinian National Authority.
Implementing those steps would set out an
appropriate entry to start the implementation of the
recommendations of the Mitchell Commission, the
thrust of which is to create favourable conditions that
allow return to the negotiating table.
Ten years after the Madrid Peace Conference, the
region is seething with frustration over the failure to
reach the long-awaited peace. People there are no
longer satisfied by the mere existence of a peace
process. Therefore, the revival of the peace process in
itself is no longer tenable in the absence of a genuinely
meaningful effort that translates into concrete progress
on the road to peace.
Prolonged confrontations have resulted not only
in the failure to carry out several obligations agreed
upon, but also in retreating from undertakings that
were already in place. This demonstrates that phased
and interim agreements are inadequate and ineffective
to address the status quo. Therefore, starting the final
status negotiations has become now a pressing priority
in order to achieve the principal objective of the peace
process, namely, the fulfilment of the national rights of
the Palestinian people and the establishment of their
viable independent State in their homeland, as well as
the guaranteeing of the security of Israel.
Peace that can be acceptable to the peoples of the
region must be comprehensive in terms of resolving, on
the one hand, the whole array of major issues: the
occupied territories, Jerusalem, the refugees, security
and weapons of mass destruction, and economic
cooperation; and including on the other, all tracks and
the States concerned.
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338
(1973) remain the basis of the peace process. Their
implementation requires putting in place the true
components of peace: primarily, the renunciation of the
settlement policy which contradicts the “land for
peace” principle and which is in itself a flagrant breach
of international law. Peace and settlements are
mutually exclusive.
Holy Jerusalem is key to peace. It is an occupied
Palestinian territory subject to the application of
resolution 242 (1967), which aims at achieving Israeli
withdrawal therefrom and from the rest of the
Palestinian territories — occupied in 1967 — so that
Jerusalem will become the capital of the State of
Palestine. In addition, an appropriate formula will have
to be worked out to ensure that the entire city of
Jerusalem will be open, freedom of worship for all will
be safeguarded and the city will be a factor of unity
and reconciliation among all believers in God.
The issue of refugees represents the worst form of
injustice and frustration in the conflict. Justice must be
secured for the Palestinian refugees in order to
eliminate the greatest source of frustration and
suffering in the region. Jordan, time and again, has
made clear its firm position in relation to the question
of refugees here in the Assembly. Let me emphasize
that Jordan will accept only a solution to the question
of refugees that takes fully into account its rights and
interests as a State, as well as the rights and interests of
its citizens, on the basis of international law and all
relevant United Nations resolutions.
Lack of trust between the two sides precludes
their ability to achieve any progress without an active
involvement by a third party. Jordan welcomes
President George W. Bush’s announcement endorsing a
solution that ensures the existence of two States,
28

including the establishment of a Palestinian State on
the Palestinian territory currently occupied by Israel, in
accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions.
This announcement completes the international
consensus on the fundamental requirement for
achieving peace in the region. It is our hope that the
United States efforts will continue with support from
the countries of the European Union, the Russian
Federation and the international community as a whole
in order to reach that goal.
A comprehensive peace must include Israeli
withdrawal from the occupied Syrian territories to the
border of 4 June 1967 and the completion of its
withdrawal from the remaining occupied Lebanese
territories on the basis of relevant Security Council
resolutions.
The suffering of Iraq and its people, due to the
international sanctions imposed against them for more
than 11 years, is yet another source of frustration and
tension in the region. Jordan once again stresses the
need to lift those sanctions and the importance of
creating conditions that will allow Iraq to reclaim its
active regional and international role. Jordan also
emphasizes the importance of completing the
implementation of relevant Security Council
resolutions, including those relating to Kuwaiti
prisoners and other missing persons.
We hope to see an end soon to the plight of the
people of Afghanistan so that that nation and its
political forces can agree on a form of government to
represent it. We also hope that the world community
will mount a genuine effort to assist the people of
Afghanistan in facing the tragic economic conditions
that have been afflicting them for many years.
At this juncture in human history, when we are
seeing a surge in global challenges, it becomes even
more imperative to rally around the United Nations and
to comply more faithfully with the purposes and
principles of its Charter, especially those relating to the
peaceful resolution of disputes on the basis of
international law.
It is also important not to abandon our collective
goals in terms of promoting peace, economic
development and respect for human rights. This
trilateral platform of action represents Jordan’s
domestic and foreign agenda.
Our relentless pursuit of a just peace in our region
has not disrupted our determined efforts to seek
economic, social and political development. To the
contrary, Jordan is now poised to embark on a new,
integrated enterprise that seeks more economic growth
in order to improve the living conditions of its
population and to open up new vistas of hope and
promise for our future generations. Indeed, the dignity
and welfare of the individual must always remain the
noblest goal of our national and international
endeavours.




"
56,2001,PRY,"﻿As I begin my statement in the general debate, allow
me to express to you, Mr. Han Seung-soo, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea, the pleasure
of my delegation at seeing you preside over the work
of this session of the General Assembly. Your personal
and professional qualities, with which we are familiar,
will ensure the success of our work. Your election is
also recognition of the sisterly Republic of Korea, a
country with which we have close links of cooperation
and friendship. You can be sure of the steadfast and
determined support of the delegation of Paraguay as
you carry out your duties.
Likewise, I would like to take this opportunity to
recognize the work being done by the Secretary-
General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, who was
recently honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize for his
dedication to the cause of the United Nations, which is
peace itself. We are certain that under his leadership,
the efforts of the United Nations will reach all peoples
and the Organization will adapt itself to the new reality
and important challenges imposed on us by the context
of international politics.
Allow me today, two months after the tragic and
condemnable events of 11 September, to reiterate the
solidarity of my Government and of the people of the
Republic of Paraguay with the Government and people
of the United States and state our unswerving
commitment to the fight against terrorism in all its
manifestations. The Republic of Paraguay is not neutral
in the face of such a cowardly crime, and it will
continue to support all the efforts of this Organization
and the international community to put a definitive end
to these crimes against humanity. We must not confine
ourselves exclusively to demonstrations of solidarity
6

and condemnation. We must make definite
commitments to the international consensus that has
been built in order to face this grave threat to humanity.
This general debate is taking place in
circumstances that would have been unimaginable to us
and that have reminded us of our vulnerability to
individuals and groups of individuals that commit
indiscriminate violent acts that are totally unjustified in
the minds or feelings of civilized human beings. We
must also recall that the theme of international
terrorism has been on our Organization’s agenda since
the twenty-seventh session of the General Assembly,
and since then to date we have not been sufficiently
diligent in taking the legal and collective security
measures necessary to prevent events such as those we
are belatedly regretting
The urgent fight against terrorism in all its
manifestations, which should not be interpreted as a
clash of civilizations or of religious beliefs, is the top
priority on our international agenda, and we cannot
assert that any country is free of the danger posed by
international terrorism. Rarely in history have there
been such grave challenges to international peace and
security like the one we face today — a fact which
forces us take clear and firm positions that are in
keeping with the provisions of the Charter and the
prevailing norms of international law. Not only is
international security at stake today, but so is the
democratic system itself, which represents victory and
universal good in its constant aspiration to and struggle
for freedom and justice.
Immediately after these events, my Government
strengthened internal measures required by the
circumstances so as to be able to exercise greater
control and security over movements into and out of
the country, while respecting the principle of the free
movement of persons.
Mindful of its responsibility and consistent with
the commitment made as a Member of this
Organization, the Republic of Paraguay, by a decree of
the executive branch of 24 October 2001, established
an inter-ministerial commission to implement
resolution 1373 (2001), recently adopted by the
Security Council. The Republic’s judicial and
legislative branches and the Attorney General’s office
were called on to designate various governmental
division representatives. The commission was installed
on 6 November 2001, under the coordination of the
Ministry for Foreign Relations.
A draft law is also currently under consideration
by the judicial branch, which defines and sets penalties
for the crime of terrorism, and it enjoys the full support
of the executive branch.
On 12 October 2001, Paraguay signed the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism, which is being referred to the
National Congress for adoption. The national
Government has embarked on constitutional procedures
so that the other conventions on this matter to which it
is still not a party will be signed and ratified or adhered
to as soon as possible.
We also expect the early adoption by the General
Assembly of the two conventions on terrorism, which
are under discussion in the Ad Hoc Committee created
for this purpose in the Sixth Committee. We must not
wait for a replay of the events of 11 September in order
to accelerate our strengthening of the international
legal framework. The time we delay in strengthening
our legal framework will be an opportunity for the
terrorists to increase their capacity and expand their
criminal activities to other countries.
Within the framework of the Organization of
American States (OAS), we have participated with full
conviction in deciding on actions and formulating
decisions that were recently adopted during the
consultative meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs.
In the context of our regional association — the
Common Market Southern Cone (MERCOSUR) — on
28 September 2001, it was decided to undertake the
broadest possible cooperation among its members in
order to carry out information exchange, studies,
concerted actions against terrorist acts and the
establishment of an open-ended working group to
appraise and devise common policies in the fight
against terrorism.
In recent weeks we have experienced once again
a new terrorist threat, and I am referring particularly to
the use of biological agents, whose effects could reach
a planetary level and threaten humanity itself as a
whole. This new criminal practice compels us to react
as rapidly and energetically as possible and be
determined in all our efforts to uncover the perpetrators
and their sponsors, who are acting in anonymity.
7

International concern and actions generated by
the events of September must also prompt us to reflect
and evaluate other themes of transcendental importance
on our agenda, such as the fight against poverty, the
need to strengthen international economic cooperation
for development, access to markets and information
and communication technologies by the developing
countries so that the imbalances that still characterize
international relations may become less severe.
Achieving the goals set in the Millennium
Declaration, along with other commitments entered
into in the context of development in the various
forums of our Organization, must continue to be one of
our greatest and urgent challenges in coming years.
For this reason, we fully concur with the point
made by the Secretary-General in his report on the
work of the Organization that the most difficult battle
facing the international community is the eradication of
poverty — which is exactly why we must speed up the
economic growth of the developing countries. We trust
that the International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held next year in Monterrey,
Mexico, will achieve the desired results. To this end,
we believe that consideration must be given to the
clear-cut differences among existing levels of
development, to the unevenness that prevails in the
capacity of countries to participate in international
processes and, in this regard, to the special situation of
landlocked countries, which, because of the nature of
their territory, face greater difficulties in engaging in
external trade, thus putting a brake on their economic
development.
It is our hope that the final outcome of that
Conference will not be confined solely and exclusively
to a mere political declaration or expression of wishes.
We hope that it will set clear objectives and goals to
ensure that the globalization process, rather than
widening the existing gap between rich and poor, will
promote the development of all nations within an
inclusive and equitable framework.
Given the new challenges and changes that have
arisen since the beginning of the new millennium, we
reaffirm our commitment to the urgent need to
strengthen our Organization, underscoring first and
foremost the central role that should be played by the
General Assembly as the most representative, universal
and equitable deliberative organ. We should not allow
the General Assembly to become a mere meeting place
where we participate in order to fulfil a routine
function within a pre-established timetable of work.
Speeding up reform of the Security Council is
another of the key aspects in strengthening the United
Nations. The Council should become a more
democratic, representative and transparent organ so
that it can strike a better political balance. This process
should provide for an increase in both permanent and
non-permanent members, so as to secure a better level
of participation for developing countries which, at the
present time, are under-represented. Likewise we
believe that, in the area of transparency of the
Council’s activities, it is appropriate to establish
interactive machinery involving the other Member
States of the Organization so that they will have greater
access to the Council’s work. For this reason, we have
welcomed the briefing meetings that the Chairman of
the Special Committee established pursuant to Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) is giving to other
Members of the Organization.
Another outstanding issue that needs to be
resolved by our Organization, and one that gives us
utmost concern in view of the recent increase in
violence and loss of life, is the situation in the Middle
East. We believe that both the General Assembly and
the Security Council should redouble their efforts to
arrive at a solution that will respond to the rightful
aspirations of the parties concerned. It should include
recognition of Israel’s existence within secure and
well-defined borders and the Palestinian people’s full
enjoyment of the right to have its own homeland. We
need to tackle this issue firmly and resolutely, ensuring
that we work together with the necessary political will
to contribute to international peace and security.
My country, Paraguay, also hopes that other areas
of tension in the world may be settled. In this regard,
mindful of the principle of universality enshrined in
our Charter, we advocate a solution to the question of
the Republic of China and Taiwan within the
framework of the norms of international law.
The current economic and social state of affairs,
and its consequences, obliges us to mobilize efficiently,
with the greatest possible degree of responsibility and
solidarity, the cooperation required from the developed
countries and the international financial institutions to
tackle the challenges that we, as leaders, face when we
try to create conditions of equal opportunity for paid
employment, and when we seek to eliminate income
8

inequities that undermine social stability, and to
provide for basic care and services for our peoples and
for the sustainable development of our countries.
In conclusion, we are aware today, more than
ever, of the need to begin a process that allows us to
work together in a rational way to build a more
supportive and participatory new economic world
order, the ultimate purpose of which would be to
promote development and well-being for all of our
peoples, once and for all. In this regard, I wish to
express my Government’s utter conviction that the
current international situation underscores the
importance of this process beginning and ending within
the sphere of the United Nations, thus ensuring full
participation in it of all Member States.




"
56,2001,TON,"﻿In congratulating Mr. Han
Seung-soo upon his assumption of high office, I must
also praise his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of
Finland, for an outstanding tenure as the President who
ushered in the new millennium. If the Millennium
Summit and its Declaration could be considered the
hallmark of Mr. Holkeri’s presidency, then Mr. Han’s
already has one of equally impressive terms with the
Organization and its Secretary-General being awarded
the Nobel Peace Prize. Therefore, the re-election of
Mr. Kofi Annan for a second term as Secretary-General
is sure testament not only to his own personal
dedication, creative leadership and unwavering sense
of spirit, but also to the vision and faith of the
Organization’s Member States.
I take this occasion to offer Tonga’s solace to all
affected delegations, and in particular the delegations
of the Dominican Republic and the United States, for
whom the tragedy that befell their communities on 12
November has such a profound bearing.
Like other Member States, Tonga takes this
occasion to express our sympathy and condolences to
the President and people of the United States for the
suffering and loss of life incurred during the attacks of
11 September. In doing so, Tonga condemns in the
strongest possible terms these acts of terror, which
remain without moral or lawful justification.
The events of 11 September have focused our
Organization’s attention on terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations and, more importantly, on the need
to address this issue comprehensively. As such, Tonga
commends the timely and decisive action taken by the
Security Council with respect to the events of 11
September. In doing so, we fully support the work of
the Counter-Terrorism Committee and its mandated
efforts to combat terrorism.
It has been stated that terrorism offends the core
values of our Organization, and that is true. The irony
is that, inasmuch as the events of 11 September were
an affront to one’s sense of humanity, it is this very
humanity that has risen to prevail over extreme
adversity. If last year’s catchphrase during the
Millennium Summit was “We, the peoples”, that call is
all the more pertinent this year in our collective efforts
to combat terrorism.
As part of its contribution to these efforts, Tonga
is taking steps to carefully study and consider the
United Nations conventions on terrorism that it is not
34

party to. However, merely becoming parties to
conventions will not be sufficient. Concrete steps will
be needed if small countries like ours are to fully and
meaningfully take part in these efforts.
For example, Tonga’s efforts to develop,
implement and maintain counter-terrorism measures
will require sustained financial and expert technical
assistance on a solid foundation of a network of
information exchange between relevant law
enforcement and aviation agencies. In this regard, our
efforts in combating terrorism will be but a microcosm
for addressing a wider plethora of development issues.
As much as the Millennium Declaration
concerned new commitments, or renewed commitments
in some instances, Tonga commends the report of the
Secretary-General for its innovation and detailed
description as to how implementation of the
Declaration might be taken forward.
We look towards the International Conference on
Financing for Development as a further opportunity to
pursue a wide range of crucial thematic issues which
are particularly critical to the development aspirations
of developing countries. The balance required for
forging consensus on these thematic issues is as
important as the balance between official development
assistance and the mobilization of limited domestic
resources.
While the Declaration of the recently concluded
World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial
Conference in Doha might give rise to optimism, Tonga
seeks a simplified, streamlined and expeditious
accession process for small island developing States
like ours who wish to join the WTO. In this regard, we
congratulate the People’s Republic of China upon its
entry into the organization. A more flexible approach
and time frame within which to meet obligations are
needed to enable countries like Tonga to adopt
measures so as to fully participate in the WTO system
and to fulfil the obligations of the WTO agreements
while minimizing any adverse impacts upon our
populace. Such an accession process can be achieved
only with continuing technical and financial assistance.
We further look towards the World Summit on
Sustainable Development as a complementary step in
the development path towards the reinvigoration of
targeted commitments to sustainable development —
especially those concerning small island developing
States — as contained in Agenda 21. We continue to
call on the international community for refocused
commitment to and implementation of the Barbados
Programme of Action. Tonga’s preparations for this
Summit, through its national assessment report, will
include identifying areas for specific and priority
capacity-building needs as well as avenues by which to
take greater advantage of financial and technological
support.
While Tonga recognizes the merit of the
economic vulnerability index as a measure for
economic impacts, its application should encompass all
small island developing States and not serve as a means
to draw superficial differences between them. After all,
the economic vulnerability index is an accurate
reflection of the true realities of small island
developing States, and if those realities are not fully
addressed, we shall continue to perch precariously on
the edge of the precipice. Therefore, we continue to
support the development of an appropriate
environmental vulnerability index, and we commend
the work of the South Pacific Applied Geoscience
Commission in this regard. We believe that such an
index will provide accurate indicators of factors to
which small islands are vulnerable, such as natural
disasters, sea-level rise and climate change. Tonga
therefore welcomes the consensus reached at
Marrakech at the seventh session of the Conference of
the Parties to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change and the further
opportunities for progress that it presents.
As a developing ocean State, we continue to seek
our fair share of the harvest from the ocean which
bounds us on all sides. We welcome in particular the
preparations for making effective the Convention on
the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory
Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean.
We urge the distant water fishing nations in our region
with a real interest in fisheries to make every effort to
become party to a convention that is the hallmark of
our commitment to the conservation and sustainable
management of a critically important resource. Tonga
continues to value the work and decisions this year at
the eleventh Meeting of States Parties to the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the
International Seabed Authority and the United Nations
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans
and the Law of the Sea — UNICPOLOS.
We continue to view information and
communication technologies as the way to go, and we
35

are making our own efforts to bridge the digital divide
to take full advantage of the digital revolution.
Maximizing such efforts will require complementary
efforts in tandem with the international community and
the United Nations. We urge continued support for the
Small Islands Developing States Network, SIDSnet,
and efforts to strengthen its capacity to support and
assist small island developing States.
Tonga welcomes the adoption of the Declaration
of Commitment on HIV/AIDS and the establishment of
the global fund to combat this scourge. We look
forward to the implementation of the Declaration and
commend those Member States who have pledged their
financial support to the fund.
We continue to support the effort to reform the
Security Council. In this regard, as was presented by a
delegation during the debate on Security Council
reform, we could support either proposal for an
expansion of the number of permanent seats: by two,
with an expansion of the number of non-permanent
seats by three, or, alternatively, by three, with the
number of non-permanent seats increased by four.
While cognizant that issues pertaining to the veto and
its exercise in such an expansion would continue to
demand handling with the utmost sensitivity and care,
we urge that where there are issues of convergence,
steps should be taken to consolidate such convergence,
and where unresolved issues remain, that these be the
focus of continuing dialogue and discussion.
Finally, with respect to pertinent regional issues
in the Pacific, Tonga endorses the views expressed in
the Nauru communiqué, now contained in document
A/56/388, which was the outcome of the annual
meeting of Pacific Island Forum leaders at Nauru in
August this year.



"
56,2001,TUN,"﻿I am
pleased to begin by extending to Mr. Han Seung-soo
and through him to his friendly country, the Republic
of Korea, our warmest congratulations on his election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-
sixth session. I wish him every success in his tasks
during the session. I would also like to convey our
sincere thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri,
for the skill and efficiency with which he conducted the
work of this Assembly during the past session.
I am also pleased on behalf of my country to
renew our sincere congratulations to Secretary-General
Kofi Annan on his unanimous re-election to continue
his noble mission. We congratulate him and the United
Nations on receiving the Nobel Peace Prize.
This session is taking place at a time when the
world is anxious about the consequences of the
atrocious terrorist acts that struck the United States on
11 September. We have strongly condemned these acts
and reiterate our condolences to the friendly American
people and the families of the victims at this difficult
time. States were unanimous in the recently adopted
Security Council and General Assembly resolutions in
emphasizing the need to combat terrorism with all
determination in order to uproot and prevent this
scourge.
Since the early 1990s, Tunisia has warned against
the dangers of terrorism. It has called for adopting the
necessary measures at the national, regional and
international levels to fight this phenomenon with all
available means. Today, we reiterate our earlier
statements. It is important to develop cooperation
among States to fight terrorism, by taking all necessary
and strong measures to implement Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001). This should apply to those who
abet directly or indirectly or are involved in
perpetrating terrorist acts in their countries of origin or
elsewhere. All acts of terrorism must be condemned
without double standards, particularly with respect to
the granting of political asylum or residency. Tunisia's
belief in the necessity of adopting such measures has
spared it the presence of extremist elements and
terrorism on its territory.
If we are to develop international cooperation in
this field, we will need to enhance approved legal
36

norms. This can be done through a comprehensive
international treaty allowing for a comprehensive plan
of action. In the same vein, Tunisia supports the
convening of an international conference against
terrorism. The conference would identify the legal
framework and machinery needed to protect the
international community from the dangers of this
scourge.
In Tunisia's view, the struggle against and
eventual elimination of terrorism requires the adoption
of a comprehensive approach that makes prevention
and the identification of the root causes of this
phenomenon the bases of the methodology of
international efforts. It is also necessary to consider the
international circumstances that influence and promote
the increase in terrorism. This will allow us to find the
appropriate approach to ending the spread of this
phenomenon and its existence. In this context, it is
imperative that we address all aspects that lead to
feelings of injustice, the absence of justice, deprivation
and marginalization. This will prevent suspicious
parties from exploiting these feelings to fuel extremism
and terrorism. There is no doubt that the United
Nations and the General Assembly in particular have
an effective role to play in clarifying that vision.
Any comprehensive approach to fighting
terrorism must stress the interdependence and
interaction between stability, security and peace, on the
one hand, and development and progress on the other.
The Millennium Summit, which brought together
the most important assembly of heads of State and
Government in the history of our Organization and
provided a unique opportunity to discuss the state of
international affairs in all its aspects, stressed that
linkage. It highlighted the need to formulate an
international strategy and operational plans to achieve
the unanimously agreed objectives specified by the
leaders for the next millennium.
This session is thus especially important in that it
provides an opportunity, a year later, to take stock of
the principles and objectives approved at the
Millennium Summit. It also permits us to develop
concerted action based on these principles and
objectives. These include a common, cooperative and
consensual approach to the problems of our world, be
they issues of international peace and security or of
development and the eradication of poverty.
Solidarity, then, is imperative in the light of the
many challenges faced by mankind. In this context,
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia has
stressed before several regional forums, including the
Millennium Summit and the Security Council summit,
the importance of solidarity in dealing with poverty,
which is one source of tension and crises in societies.
We believe that we cannot guarantee stability and
security in the world without eliminating all forms of
poverty, marginalization and alienation. In this context,
President Ben Ali launched his appeal to establish a
world fund for solidarity towards the eradication of
poverty.
From this rostrum, I extend my sincere thanks to
all parties that responded to this proposal and
participated in the consultations held by the Secretary-
General. In this regard, I cannot fail to commend the
efforts of the Secretary-General to prepare a positive
report, which we hope will be the basis for establishing
the fund at this session. We have repeatedly affirmed
that the fund will not duplicate existing United Nations
bodies concerned with fighting poverty; it will, instead,
complement their efforts and provide a means of
financing through voluntary contributions by
individuals, institutions or societies, in addition to
Governments. These contributions will be deposited in
an account to be administered by the United Nations
Development Programme.
There is no doubt that the strengthening of the
foundations of international peace and security is a task
entrusted primarily to the Security Council, which in
recent weeks has proved particularly effective in its
reaction to current developments. We hope that that
important body will maintain the same effectiveness in
seeking solutions to all international problems.
From this perspective, developments in the
Middle East must take priority among the issues before
the Council. This is particularly important in view of
the continuing instability in the region caused by
Israel's intransigence. We call on the Security Council,
and especially its permanent members, to play an
effective role so as to spare the Middle East from the
spectre of an endless conflict, by urging Israel to take
urgent measures to ensure the protection of the
Palestinian people. Tunisia reaffirms its initiative,
calling for the protection of the Palestinian people
through the deployment of international forces in the
region.
37

We believe that the only viable option in the
Middle East today is a just, lasting and comprehensive
peace that guarantees for the Palestinians the return of
their land and their legitimate rights, foremost of which
is their right to establish an independent State. In this
context, Tunisia welcomes President Bush's
affirmation before the General Assembly of the
necessity of establishing a Palestinian State. We also
reiterate our position on the need for Israeli forces to
leave Syrian and Lebanese territory.
The question of sanctions prompts us to examine
our consciences in the light of the suffering it causes
civilians. We hope that there will be international
consensus to remove the sanctions against Iraq and to
deal with the humanitarian issue of missing Kuwaitis
and persons from third countries. It is also time once
and for all to lift the sanctions imposed against our
sister country Libya, which has implemented all its
obligations concerning the Lockerbie incident.
As a member of the region, Tunisia is working
towards more active participation in the Maghreb
Union, which aspires to integrate the States of the
region by enhancing the structure of the Union and
guiding its work, given its function as a strategic
option that reflects the will of the people of the region.
Tunisia is working to promote consultation and
cooperation in the European-Mediterranean space on
the basis of equality, mutual respect, protection of the
interests of all parties and respect for their
particularities. The aim is to bring about the solid
development of the peoples of the two shores of the
Mediterranean so as to achieve greater security and
stability in the region.
Faithful to its commitment to the African
continent, Tunisia supports new initiatives for Africa
and has joined the newly created African Union and
will support it with all our capabilities and experience.
Respect for the purposes and principles of the
Charter only strengthens the action of the Organization
in responding to the challenges of development and the
maintenance of international peace and security. In this
context, we have to strengthen the role of the General
Assembly, as an expression of the collective will of its
Members and as an embodiment of the concept of
democracy in international relations.
With regard to the activities of the Security
Council, Tunisia, throughout its term of office in the
Council, has tried to strengthen the role of this organ
by advocating consensus in dealing with the various
items on its agenda. This, in our view, will enhance the
Council's credibility and will reflect positively on its
efficiency.
During its presidency of the Council in February
2001, Tunisia adopted a new comprehensive approach
to dealing with various cases of instability and crises in
the world.
Tunisia put forward a proposal for holding a
debate on the subject Peace-building: towards a
comprehensive approach. The result of this debate
was a unanimous affirmation by members of the
Council of the close connection between peace and
development, of the preventive dimension of this
approach and of the importance of solidarity in the
international community when it comes to taking
measures that are necessary for helping countries that
are racked by tension and conflict.
Within this context, I must stress the need for the
reform of the Security Council so as to expand its
membership of permanent and non-permanent seats on
the basis of equitable geographic distribution that will
guarantee the interests of all countries, particularly the
developing countries. In contributing operationally to
the establishment of peace and security in the world,
Tunisia has participated in a number of peacekeeping
operations such as its current participation in the
United Nations Organization Mission in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) headed
by a Tunisian ambassador representing the United
Nations.
The elimination of weapons of mass destruction
represents one of the major challenges facing
humanity. The importance of the establishment of
zones free of weapons of mass destruction, particularly
in the Middle East, is to be stressed in this context.
Technological and scientific advances have
dwarfed distances and enabled mankind to score major
achievements in numerous fields, such as spread of
ideas and bringing people closer to each other.
Development, however, has not benefited all peoples,
particularly developing countries. The widening of the
quantitative gap between industrialized and developing
countries is a matter of concern. Concrete measures
must be taken to permit all countries to benefit from
the technological and information revolution. From this
standpoint, we would express the importance that
Tunisia places, since the International
38

Telecommunication Union (ITU) Conference in
Minneapolis, on hosting the second phase of the World
Summit on the Information Society in Tunisia in 2005.
We would like to express our gratitude to all countries
that have supported us in this. We would also like to
express our thanks to Mr. Yoshio Utsumi, ITU
Secretary-General, for his constructive role.
We hope that the General Assembly will adopt at
this session a resolution to begin preparations for this
conference in its two phases. We also hope that the
work of this conference will lead to the establishment
of a true and effective world information partnership
between developed and developing countries.
Our ability to meet challenges, which we are all
facing, including the fight against terrorism, depends
on our willingness to channel our efforts towards joint
action, based on cooperation, solidarity, tolerance and
partnership within the framework of our Organization,
which is the ideal place for the realization of our
aspirations and for the benefit of all mankind.







"
56,2001,HRV,"﻿I wanted to come here,
and I had to come here. I thought it was necessary to
show that I will not allow those fanatic killers, who
4

may be secretly lurking right now, to prevent me from
presenting the general views of my country, the
Republic of Croatia, about the current situation in the
world in front of this audience in the United Nations.
This year, the general debate is taking place later
than usual. The terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington postponed the scheduled autumn session. I
emphasize the word “postponed”. The terrorists did not
manage to paralyse the United States of America. They
did not manage to stop the work of the United Nations;
nor will the world’s statesmen cancel their visits to
New York and their participation in the work of the
General Assembly.
Since 11 September, when as if in a nightmare we
were faced with the horror of global terrorism, it has
been repeatedly said by many people, including myself,
that the world is no longer the same. I am here today to
repeat this, and also to add a few more words. It is true,
or at least it seems to be true, that the terrorist attacks,
which left thousands of deaths behind, have changed
everything. However, the truth is slightly different:
much has changed as a result of the attacks, but
nothing has changed in the area that made it possible
for the attacks to be committed.
I would therefore like to stress the following
points. In order to make sure that the terror experienced
by New York and Washington will not happen again,
we — I repeat, we — have to change the world
completely.
Today we live with the threat of global terrorism,
and the global response to it. With regard to the nature
of this first big war of the twenty-first century, I can
only repeat what I recently mentioned in my speech in
the Israeli parliament, the Knesset. This is not a clash
of civilizations; this is not a clash of cultures; this is
not a conflict of religions. This is just a confrontation
of civilization and non-civilization.
I would also like to be very clear about something
else. There is no such thing as “our” or “their”
terrorism. There is no justified or unjustified terrorism.
It is in the nature of terrorism, regardless of whether it
is masked by an ideology, religion or war of liberation,
to kill innocent people — the more, the better.
Terrorism is therefore absolutely unacceptable, and this
is why we are fighting against it today.
We have created a broad anti-terrorist coalition,
an alliance of countries not previously known in
history, which can only be compared to the anti-fascist
coalition at the time of the Second World War. This
anti-terrorist coalition is almost an alliance of the
civilized world, a defence response of that world to the
challenge and threat of destruction and anarchy. I
would like to stress two things with respect to the
response and the circumstances in which it is taking
place.
First, today we are not faced with the dilemma of
choosing between anarchy imposed upon us by the
terrorists, on the one hand, and autocracy, which some
could perhaps see as the only efficient response to
global terrorism on the other. To accept that dilemma
would be fatal for our civilization. The response is, and
can only be, democracy and the rule of law. The
defence of democracy must not turn it into its very
opposite, even under the conditions of war imposed
upon us by the terrorists.
Secondly, the establishment of the anti-terrorist
coalition represents the beginning of profound and far-
reaching changes on the world political scene. I am
speaking about changes in relations between countries
or groups of countries. I am also speaking about
changes in the nature and way of functioning of
international alliances, such as the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, as well as existing international
organizations like the United Nations and those
organizations that are just emerging, of which the
International Criminal Court is one example.
However, while we are still combating global
terrorism using our military, political and economic
force and intelligence organizations, we must start
looking for answers to the following questions: What is
global terrorism and what makes it possible? It is not
enough to defeat the terrorists we are faced with today.
We have to do everything we can to make sure that we
shall not be dealing with new terrorists tomorrow. This
is the second level of change that needs to be carried
out, but that is not yet being made. I view the situation
as follows.
It will not be difficult to encourage fanatic
behaviour in both individuals and large groups of
people — thus turning them into ruthless killers or
terrorists — as long as famine, poverty and non-
development are present in large parts of the world,
and as long as people anywhere suffer from inequality
and the absence of freedom as a result of unresolved
regional crises. I therefore think that we have to change
5

the world completely, if we do not want our present
fight against global terrorism and our victory over it, of
which I have no doubt, to be mere episodes.
That might sound too ambitious or even a bit
utopian, but I believe it is neither of the two. I am sure
that, in addition to the fight against terrorism, there is
another task ahead of us that is no less difficult or
responsible, namely, creating and implementing a
global strategy for solving accumulated problems of
today’s world, problems that did not appear only
yesterday. Many of them have been discussed under the
dome of the General Assembly. Many beautiful words
have been said. It is now time to turn those words into
actions. It is now time for those actions to stop ugly,
abominable words full of hatred and hostility from
turning into new acts of madness such as the ones we
saw in this city. We have a common interest: life in
peace and safety for all. Let us have a common goal,
too: a life of dignity for all. Neither can be achieved
tomorrow everywhere, but both can be achieved
everywhere.
I would like this session of the United Nations
General Assembly to reaffirm this world Organization
as an irreplaceable instrument in the struggle for a
different and better world. I would like this session to
show the political will of all Member States to start
seeking together — and finding — in a sincere and
coordinated way, solutions to problems that, in the
context of the threat of global terrorism, prove to be
literally unavoidable.
Let us not forget that in September the terrorists
used planes full of passengers in order to kill thousands
of people. The next time they may use chemical,
biological or, perhaps, even nuclear weapons to kill
hundreds of thousands of people. Let us also not forget
that this Organization was founded to “save succeeding
generations from the scourge of war”. There is no time
to lose. Let us change the world we live in so as to be
able to continue to live.




"
56,2001,ARE,"﻿At the outset, I wish to express how deeply
saddened we are over the crash of the American
Airlines aircraft a few hours ago, a few miles away
from this Headquarters, in the borough of Queens in
New York City. Let me express our deep condolences
to the families of the victims and to our friends in this
country.
I have the honour to convey to Mr. Han Seung-
soo, on behalf of the United Arab Emirates, our sincere
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. His
election to this high office shows the high regard the
international community has for him personally as well
as for his friendly country, South Korea, with which
my country maintains good relations. We are confident
that thanks to his experience in international affairs the
Assembly will achieve positive results, and we wish
him and his staff every success.
Let me also extend my thanks to his predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the valuable efforts he exerted in
conducting the work of the previous session.
I should also like to take this opportunity to
congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan on his re-
election for a second term to this high office and on
being awarded, together with the United Nations
Organization, the Nobel Peace Prize. We would like to
convey to him our appreciation for his persistent
efforts, which are bound to contribute to enabling the
Organization to accomplish its lofty mission of
maintaining international peace and security and
achieving sustainable international development.
This session is being held at a very critical stage,
when the United States of America has been subjected
to the most horrific and dangerous forms of organized
39

terrorism that not only targeted the lives of thousands
of innocent civilian men, women and children, but also
the moral codes and values underlying the human and
cultural principles that are enshrined in the Charter, the
norms of international law and the foundations and
concepts of the legal, political, economic and social
institutions that shape the nature of our international
relations as a whole.
The United Arab Emirates, which was deeply
shocked after this reprehensible, immoral and criminal
act, reiterates today its strong denunciation and
condemnation of these savage acts and all other forms
of terrorism, wherever they may be. They constitute the
clearest challenges to international peace and security
in the twenty-first century. We also announce our
complete support for and cooperation with the United
States Government as well as all the regional and
international efforts aimed at tracking down the
perpetrators of these brutal acts, bringing them to
justice. We also stress our readiness to contribute to
any international campaign aimed at eliminating
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. At the
same time, we call upon the international community to
strengthen the mechanisms and scope of relief aid for
the Afghan people, who have been afflicted by brutal
wars for over two decades and who presently face the
most horrible and unprecedented internal displacement.
The changes that we are witnessing in the nature
of international relations today, and the accompanying
accelerated trends in the fields of globalization,
technology, modern communications and economic
openness have not only had a positive impact on the
lives and interests of certain States and peoples but
have rather contributed to widening the security,
economic, social, cultural and information gap and
differences between the peoples of the developed and
the developing countries. At the same time, they have
helped to spawn new situations of conflict, civil and
ethnic wars and transnational problems. Accordingly,
we believe that the first steps to be taken to confront
the totality of these problems require, primarily,
finding a clear, comprehensive and balanced strategy of
regional and international cooperation that takes into
consideration, as a matter of priority, the extent to
which the concept of international security and peace,
on the one hand, and the problems of humanitarian
need and sustainable development, on the other, are
linked.
In this context, we stress the importance of the
assumption by the United Nations, in cooperation and
coordination with other regional organizations, of a
larger role in international affairs. We believe in
dialogue and peaceful negotiations as an ideal approach
for resolving disputes. We therefore look forward to a
response from the Islamic Republic of Iran to the call
by the United Arab Emirates to find a peaceful
settlement to the occupation of our three islands,
Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa, either
through direct negotiations or by referring the dispute
to the International Court of Justice to be resolved on
the basis of the purposes and principles of the Charter
and the principles of international law.
We also hope that the visit to Tehran of His
Excellency Sheikh Hamdan Bin Zayed Al-Nahyan,
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, on 23 July 2001,
and that of Mr. Mohamed Ali Abtahi, the Iranian
President’s envoy, to Abu Dhabi on 6 August 2001,
will contribute to the serious efforts being made to find
a peaceful solution to the issue of Iran’s occupation of
our three islands, promote confidence-building and
enhance the principle of peaceful coexistence, mutual
cooperation and good-neighbourliness.
Furthermore, the United Arab Emirates would
like once again to welcome the acceptance by the two
fraternal States of Qatar and Bahrain of the decision of
the International Court of Justice on the settlement of
their previous disagreement over the disputed areas. It
also notes with satisfaction the arrangements made for
the demarcation of the boundaries between some
countries of the region and stresses that continuation of
such an approach and peaceful trends in international
relations will strengthen the foundations of regional
and international peace and security.
The question of Iraq has been taken up by the
United Nations for 11 years and the Iraqi people are
still suffering from the continuation of the international
economic sanctions imposed on them. Although the
oil-for-food programme has helped alleviate the
suffering of certain sectors of Iraqi society, it clearly
does not constitute the practical mechanism required to
contain and deal with the human tragedies and far-
reaching destructive effects that these sanctions
continue to inflict, not only on the infrastructure and
institutions of the basic services sectors of the Iraqi
people, but also with regard to people’s most
elementary necessities, including nutritional, medical,
educational and other care. We therefore call for a
40

political formula acceptable to all the parties concerned
that will ensure that the sanctions imposed on the Iraqi
people are lifted and, at the same time, the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of Iraq are maintained.
The re-establishment of normal ties between Iraq
and Kuwait requires efforts to resolve the problems
that have arisen as a result of Iraq’s occupation of
Kuwait in 1990, the most important of which is the
return of Kuwaiti nationals and others held hostage or
as prisoners of war, in accordance with international
resolutions.
We welcome the Security Council resolution last
September to lift the international sanctions imposed
on our brother country Sudan. We also demand that the
Security Council follow the same procedures in regard
to the international sanctions imposed on our fraternal
country Libya, especially now that its Government has
completely fulfilled its commitments under the relevant
Council resolutions.
Since 28 September of last year, the occupied
Palestinian territories have seen human tragedies and
acts of violence because of the policy of State terrorism
pursued by Israel against the Palestinian people,
including re-occupation of territories, expansion of
settlements, escalation of bombing and destruction of
economic and physical infrastructure in the Palestinian
territories, in addition to systematic liquidation and
massacres that have claimed the lives of more than
1,300 martyrs and tens of thousands of other innocent
casualties, half of whom are children and women.
The United Arab Emirates warmly welcomes the
announcement made by President Bush three days ago
in which he committed his country to helping establish
peaceful coexistence between two States, Israel and
Palestine. Once again, we fully support the right of
Palestinians to self-determination and to establish their
own independent State with Jerusalem as its capital. In
addition, we strongly condemn all flagrant violations
by Israel against the brotherly Palestinian people.
We call upon the United Nations — especially the
Security Council and its permanent members — in
particular the United States, and European Union
members to take all necessary and effective measures
to avoid bias and double standards and to bring
pressure to bear on Israel to end immediately all its
terrorist acts of aggression against Palestinians, their
towns and holy sites. In this connection, we call for the
establishment, without delay, of an international
mechanism to provide the necessary protection for the
Palestinian people.
The attainment of security and just and
comprehensive peace and stability in the Middle East
requires that Israel comply strictly with the agreements
and protocols it has concluded within the framework of
the peace process and relevant resolutions of the
United Nations. Those resolutions all call upon Israel
to withdraw completely from all Palestinian and other
Arab territories it has occupied since 1967, including
the Holy City of Jerusalem, the Syrian Arab Golan and
the Shab’a farms in Lebanon. They also call for the
removal of existing settlements and the return of
Palestinian refugees to their homes.
Israel’s possession of prohibited weapons,
especially nuclear weapons, is a direct threat to
regional and international peace and security. We
therefore renew our call on the international
community to pressure the Israeli Government to
dismantle its dangerous arsenal of weapons. We would
also like to emphasize that comprehensive international
disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, and
improving international mechanisms and arrangements
for non-proliferation have top priority in the area of
regional and international security concerns. We also
call upon nuclear States and States that continue to
pursue the acquisition of such weapons to end such
dangerous policies, which threaten regional and
international peace and security.
We are following with deep concern the political
and military events that have erupted in many regions,
particularly in South and South-East Asia, certain
African countries and the Balkans. We therefore stress
the need for the parties concerned to muster the
necessary political will and to try to resolve their
problems and disputes by resorting to dialogue and
peaceful means, and on the basis of the principles of
international law and United Nations resolutions.
Despite the encouraging rates of economic
growth and recovery achieved by some countries in the
last few years as a result of the information revolution,
globalization and the formidable technological
developments in the fields of communications and free
markets, international reports and statistics have
recently indicated a slow-down in global economic
growth due to the lack of a clear strategy for regional
and international economic cooperation. That slow-
down has in turn aggravated the economic imbalance
41

between the countries of the North and those of the
South. While the countries of the North enjoy
prosperity, those of the South continue to suffer from
poverty, unemployment, disease and environmental
pollution.
Therefore the United Arab Emirates, which is
accustomed to extending financial development
investment and humanitarian assistance to many
developing countries and countries affected by natural
disasters and armed conflicts, calls upon developed
countries and international specialized agencies to
increase both their official and unofficial assistance to
developing countries. It is equally important that
official development assistance to poor countries be
increased so as to alleviate the foreign debt burden, to
help those countries secure access to world markets for
their domestic products, to facilitate the transfer of
peaceful technologies, and to assist them in containing
their growing domestic problems so as to combat
poverty, unemployment, environmental degradation
and the spread of disease.
In conclusion, we hope that our deliberations on
the items on the agenda at this session will produce
positive results that will enhance confidence-building
measures and ensure security and stability in this world
of numerous and quickly changing variables."
56,2001,PNG,"﻿On behalf of
the people and Government of Papua New Guinea, I
wish to join previous speakers in congratulating the
President on his election to this prestigious post.
His election shows the high esteem in which the
international community holds both him personally and
his country, the Republic of Korea.
My delegation is confident that, through his great
diplomatic skills and leadership, which is already
evident, he will continue to guide the work of this
session of the General Assembly to its successful
conclusion.
I also take this opportunity, through him, to
express my delegation’s sincere appreciation to his
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his
outstanding leadership and stewardship in facilitating
the work of the historic Millennium Summit and the
fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly.
We also congratulate and pay tribute to Mr. Kofi
Annan for his re-election to the office of Secretary-
General of the United Nations and for the award of the
Nobel Peace Prize.
Papua New Guinea is resolute in its commitment
to the purposes and principles of the United Nations
Charter. Papua New Guinea acknowledges the value of
many of the United Nations treaties and declarations,
including those that advance human rights, the rule of
law and good governance. Many of these principles are
enumerated in our national Constitution.
We acknowledge that the Organization has had
some limitations, many of which are self-inflicted. We
note that the United Nations is now in a much healthier
31

financial position than ever before. However, there is
no room for complacency in the pursuit of its reform
programme. The United Nations bodies and systems
must be restructured to reflect new dynamics and
geopolitical changes and to create hope for all at the
beginning of the new millennium.
We believe that our common global and regional
problems cannot be resolved under the auspices of
violence, terrorism, war and destruction; nor can they
be resolved in a vacuum. The United Nations provides
a forum and an avenue for fostering dialogue for
peaceful resolution of disputes.
An effective Security Council, we believe, should
be representative of all subregions of the world. My
Government also believes that the use of the veto
power should be limited to Chapter VII issues, while
the working methods and deliberations of the Council
should be more transparent and democratic.
Papua New Guinea’s development aspirations
have been compromised by problems associated with
the downturn in the global economy, the economic
crisis within the Asia-Pacific region and natural
disasters, over all of which we have little control. The
Government has addressed these challenges through a
comprehensive programme of structural adjustments.
We have worked hard to make sure that these structural
adjustments are made in the public sector in order to
stimulate and expand growth in the private sector.
The measures we have adopted have stabilized
the economy. However, as we look into the future, we
cannot but hope that the incidents of 11 September will
not unduly affect our future recovery. Judging by the
evidence of a downturn in the United States economy,
it seems clear that every effort is required to make the
International Conference on Financing for
Development next year a success.
We are grateful to the Friends of Papua New
Guinea group, comprising Australia, Japan, the
European Commission and China, among others, which
have been generous in assisting our Government in its
development efforts. The World Bank, International
Monetary Fund and Asian Development Bank have
also been very positive in their responses to our
policies.
My country has experienced an unfortunate and
terrible conflict and has been trying to build mutual
confidence and security by pursuing a progressive
political settlement, including through restoration and
development for the past four years in its Bougainville
Province. We have utilized the Melanesian way of
building consensus between all parties to the conflict.
The consensus is now reflected in the Bougainville
Peace Agreement, signed by the parties on 30 August
this year. The Government is resolute in its desire to
implement the Agreement. It has completed work on
drafting amendments to our Constitution to provide for
greater autonomy, a referendum and amnesty. Together
with ongoing efforts to implement other aspects of the
Agreement, the parties are expected to facilitate
progress on weapons disposal and associated issues,
such as reconciliation and the unification of political
and administrative structures in Bougainville. A special
session of Parliament will be been convened next
week, on 22 November, to continue to debate the
Agreement. Parliament will deliberate on the
constitutional amendments on or soon after 14
December this year.
We wish to place on record our deep appreciation
to the United Nations, in particular Ambassador Noel
Sinclair and his team on Bougainville, the United
Nations Development Programme, the European
Union, individual European Union members and the
Governments of Australia, Fiji, Japan, New Zealand,
Solomon Islands and Vanuatu for their continuing and
constructive roles in Bougainville.
It is also my pleasure to speak on behalf of the
Bougainville parties and the Government to thank the
Secretary-General and all members of the Security
Council, past and present, for continuing to renew the
mandate of the United Nations Political Office in
Bougainville. We are confident that the Security
Council will continue to provide all the assistance we
need with respect to arms collection, storage and
disposal.
The process of decolonization will not be
completed until the people of the remaining 17 Non-
Self-Governing Territories have exercised their right to
self-determination and/or achieved self-government.
Papua New Guinea welcomes the cooperation of
the Government of France with regard to the progress
made in implementing the Nouméa Accords and setting
in motion the eventual exercise of the right of self-
determination by the people of New Caledonia,
especially the indigenous Kanak people.
32

We acknowledge the full cooperation of the
Government of New Zealand in the progress made so
far with respect to the question of the Tokelau Islands.
My Government notes the progress made in East
Timor. We heartily welcome the announcement of 20
May 2002 as the day the people of East Timor will
attain independence and nationhood. We look forward
to welcoming them as a full Member of this family of
nations.
Papua New Guinea continues to urge the other
administering Powers to cooperate with the Special
Political and Decolonization Committee in
implementing and completing its mandate soon.
The future of each of the remaining Non-Self-
Governing Territories can be assured only by a
positive, constructive and, above all, transparent
approach to developing a unique solution for each of
them.
The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly
established the Consultative Process on oceans to
improve the coordination and management of the
programmes associated with the use, development and
protection of the oceans and seas. The Consultative
Process has been successful in bringing to the fore, and
focusing the attention of Member States on, a number
of issues.
The Pacific Islands Forum group includes small
island developing States that are custodians of the
largest ocean space. This ocean space is rich in natural
and marine resources. However, the small island
developing States of the region have limited human,
financial and technological capacities to harvest,
control, manage and secure these resources for the
benefit of our current and future generations.
It has been said that to divert the poor from the
call of the evil, it is not enough to appeal to their
stomachs only. Rather, one must appeal to their
aspirations as well. We joined others having particular
interest in the sustainable use and management of the
fish stocks in our region to establish the Convention on
the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory
Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean
in September 2000. The next meeting of the signatories
to this Convention will be held in Papua New Guinea
early next year.
We welcome Malta’s lodgement last Sunday of its
instrument of ratification of the Agreement for the
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December
1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish
Stocks. The Agreement, which will now come into
force on 11 December 2001, called on States to
cooperate to enhance the ability of developing States,
in particular the least developed and small island
developing States, to conserve and develop their own
fisheries for such stocks. For all small island
developing States in the Pacific, financing for
development has to be linked to the development of
their fisheries sector.
In order to emphasize my point, I have provided
some data on the last page of my written statement.
The Assembly will note that the Central and Western
Pacific fishery is valued in excess of $2.5 billion per
annum, while the Pacific small island developing
States earn an average of only $66 million per annum
in licensing fees. For the small island developing States
of the Pacific to attain sustainable growth and
development, this situation has to change.
Last year my delegation also welcomed the
conclusion by the International Seabed Authority of the
exploration code for seabed mining. Continuing work
is to be undertaken with respect to a code for
exploration for polymetallic sulfides and cobalt-rich
crusts. Papua New Guinea has particular interest in
polymetallic sulfides.
My delegation would like to thank once again the
Secretary-General of the International Seabed
Authority, Ambassador Satya Nandan, for his report on
the work of the Authority. We welcome the execution
of contracts by pioneer investors and urge the
remaining pioneer investor to follow suit as soon as
possible.
Papua New Guinea supports the principles
contained in the Barbados Programme of Action and in
Agenda 21 of the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development. We continue to support
the principles contained in the Kyoto Protocol and the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change. We once again stress the urgent need for
developed countries to make a concerted effort to
reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
My delegation welcomes the achievements of part
two of the sixth session of the Conference of the
Parties to the climate change Convention, held at Bonn
33

last July, and the successful completion of the recent
seventh session of the Conference, held at Marrakesh,
Morocco.
Another of the greatest challenges facing the
United Nations is to strengthen the capacity of the
global community to respond promptly and effectively
to climate change and natural disaster. In 1997, Papua
New Guinea experienced drought and frost caused by
El Niño and in 1998 came the tsunami and the La Niña
phenomenon, bringing floods and landslides and
leaving death and destruction in their wake. We
acknowledge the prompt and generous support of our
neighbours in dealing with the effects of such disasters.
Global warming has also brought increased numbers of
cases of diseases such as malaria to the higher-altitude
and most populous region of our country. The threat of
increased incidence of malaria in that region is real,
and could negatively affect the demographics of the
country. There is definitely a link among climate
change, natural disaster and the spread and increased
incidence of disease.
Nor is Papua New Guinea exempt from the HIV/
AIDS epidemic or from tuberculosis. We are grateful to
Australia and to other partners which have provided
assistance in that field of health care. We also welcome
again last year’s announcement by the Japanese
Government that it would set aside substantial financial
resources for disease eradication programmes in
developing countries.
The forthcoming International Conference on
Financing for Development and the World Summit for
Sustainable Development must be platforms for
launching new and innovative methods for realigning
the policies of the Bretton Woods institutions so that
they focus more on development and on the eradication
of poverty. There must be a concerted effort to link
new and innovative financial instruments to the
delivery of specific outcome-oriented approaches.
There must be flexibility in assisting developing
countries, especially small island, landlocked and least
developed countries. As I have said before, for the
peoples of the Pacific islands to become meaningful
participants in the globalization process, new financial
instruments and mechanisms should be developed to
facilitate the transfer of technological capacity and
expertise in the fisheries sector.
Papua New Guinea is committed to peaceful
dialogue among nations and condemns those that
employ terrorism against people or that finance, recruit
or train terrorists or mercenaries. The barbaric acts of
11 September have been described in many ways.
Some have called them horrendous, despicable and the
work of evil-doers. The use of any adjective to describe
the horror and the continuing threat to human security
only adds to the esteem in which some hold the
perpetrators. The use of qualifiers to describe the
innocence of the deceased lends legitimacy to those
acts and shields the nakedness of their wilful and
wrongful nature.
Papua New Guinea condemns the 11 September
attacks on the United States and supports the ongoing
campaign by the United States and its allies against
terrorism. On behalf of the Government and the people
of Papua New Guinea, I convey our heartfelt
condolences to the immediate families and other
relatives of all those who had their lives brutally taken
away from them in New York, Washington, D.C., and
Pennsylvania. My Government is committed to
implementing Security Council resolution 1373 (2001)
and is in the process of examining all existing
conventions relating to terrorism with a view to
acceding to them early next year.
Papua New Guinea also notes the death several
days ago of the political leader of the people of the
Indonesian province of Irian Jaya, Mr. Theys Eluay,
under questionable circumstances. As a neighbouring
country which shares a common border with that
province, Papua New Guinea is concerned about the
likely spillover effect of new developments in the
province. We urge Indonesia to undertake a thorough,
impartial and transparent investigation into Mr. Eluay’s
death, to make public the results and to bring to justice
those responsible.
My Government is committed to a stable,
peaceful and environmentally safe world and therefore
supports the objectives of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and of the
Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty. We call on all
that have nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
destruction, including biological weapons, to stop
testing, manufacturing and storing them, and
furthermore to take steps to destroy them.
We also support efforts to ban transboundary
movements of radioactive and other hazardous wastes
through the Pacific region. We call on those States that
previously conducted nuclear-weapon tests or that have
34

discharged chemical or other non-degradable wastes in
our subregion to adequately compensate and provide
appropriate medical assistance to the scores of persons
and families affected. Remedial action should be taken
to clean up the damage done to the environment.
Global and regional partnerships to promote
change are the key to addressing the challenges that the
world will face in the twenty-first century. Papua New
Guinea believes that a challenge for Member States is
to reshape the Organization so that it can serve as an
effective tool for implementing our collective desire: to
make the global village a better place for all.




"
56,2001,SVK,"﻿At the outset, I wish to
join other speakers in warmly congratulating you, Sir,
on your election as President of the fifty-sixth session
of the General Assembly. It is my deep conviction that
in this difficult situation we will, under your
experienced leadership, materialize the expectations of
the international community, which has always desired
to view the United Nations as a reliable guarantor of
world peace. I recall our recent meeting in Seoul, and it
is a pleasure for me to see you, Sir, presiding over the
General Assembly this year. I also wish to thank your
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his hard work,
dedication and leadership in presiding over the fifty-
fifth session of the General Assembly.
7

The recent brutal terrorist attack against our host
country, which has left all of us in deep shock, was
undoubtedly also directed against the United Nations
and its principles and values, which we as Member
States share. This inhuman act was an attack on all of
us. However, it has united the international community,
which realized the potential danger and threat of
terrorism to the existence of human civilization. The
international community has responded in the only way
appropriate: international terrorism cannot be tolerated;
all the nations of the world must stand united in the
battle against this evil; and they have to search
vigorously for ways to effectively respond to it.
We were relieved to see the United Nations acting
promptly and in a very determined way, adopting the
very next day General Assembly and Security Council
resolutions urging the international community to
redouble its efforts to prevent and suppress terrorist
acts by increased cooperation and full implementation
of the relevant international anti-terrorist conventions
and Security Council resolutions. In particular,
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) is of a great
importance and must be fully implemented.
We appreciate that after the terrorist attacks,
countries and international organizations have
manifested moral maturity and their capacity to closely
cooperate and coordinate their actions in the fight
against world terrorism. We welcome the active and
irreplaceable role the United Nations plays in this fight.
As United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan
explicitly stated in his response to the arrogant and
disdainful words of bin Laden addressed to the United
Nations, people will understand that the position of the
United Nations is the expression of the will of all its
Members.
A year ago, many of my colleagues and I
elaborated on the role of the United Nations in
combating international terrorism. The Slovak
Republic joined the anti-terrorist coalition swiftly,
effectively and without any hesitation. It will remain a
firm part of the coalition of nations and people
resolved to fight terrorism and determined to face this
threat to peace and security on our planet. The Slovak
Republic is a party to 11 of the 12 universal anti-
terrorist conventions. Shortly, we hope to ratify the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism, which we signed last January.
We call on all other countries to redouble their efforts
in order to achieve a speedy conclusion of a
comprehensive convention against terrorism.
The terrorist attack has certainly changed our
perception of the world. A re-assessment of
international arrangements is a necessity in this
context. After a period of mostly emotional reactions,
we now need more qualified answers, supported by
resolve and responsibility. I am convinced that the
resolve and responsibility will be translated into
executive actions and systemic steps by the United
Nations.
The legal instruments devised here at the United
Nations constitute an especially good basis for
deepening the effectiveness of the fight against
terrorism. Using the words of the aphorist Blaise
Pascal, I want to emphasize that the only thing that
remains to be done is to implement all the good
principles that have already been laid down. It is
encouraging that the words of comfort and the ideas
and commitments uttered by high representatives of the
Member States of this, the most universal international
community, overwhelmingly share that spirit. Slovakia
fully associates itself with those views. In that context,
we wish to express our hope that the Rome Statute of
the International Criminal Court will enter into force
sometime next year. With that the international
community will be establishing a body that will end
impunity for crimes of the greatest seriousness,
including crimes against humanity.
The world has a unique opportunity to achieve
progress in tackling long-lasting conflicts through joint
efforts. Slovakia considers United Nations
peacekeeping operations to be one of the key and most
visible aspects of the Organization’s activities. We
view all United Nations activities in conflict
prevention, peacekeeping, peace support and peace-
building as particularly important. It is the people in
the regions suffering from conflict who look to our
Organization with hope, and we must not let them
down.
As a country that is materially and personally
involved, we welcome with great attention and
devotion and participate actively in the discussions
aimed at reforming and improving the efficiency of
United Nations peacekeeping. We are ready to continue
contributing our share in every possible way to this
noble endeavour. The participation of the Slovak
Republic in United Nations peacekeeping operations
8

has grown almost six-fold since the beginning of the
year 2000. This year we took part in the United Nations
mission in East Timor, where we deployed a level II
hospital. In Cyprus the Slovak contingent has replaced
Austria and has become the lead nation in Sector 4. We
have sent our demining experts and other personnel to
the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea.
I would also like to add my personal note to this
description of my country’s engagement. For the past
two years, the Secretary-General has entrusted me with
an exceptionally demanding and responsible task,
namely, to serve as his Special Envoy for the Balkans
and to oversee the peaceful resolution of the still-
smouldering conflict in Kosovo. I am aware of the
critical importance of the coming elections to be held
in Kosovo under the supervision of the United Nations
Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). I
am now therefore in a position to state a single critical
thesis: that area must stay multi-ethnic and the
international community must continue to be consistent
in its policies on the matter.
As a country that is experiencing dynamic
development and one that shares a great interest in
stable international development and the prosperity of
the international community, Slovakia also has an
ambition to play a more visible role in the United
Nations. Our Prime Minister, Mikuláš Dzurinda, also
clearly expressed our position on many other topics
and challenges at last year’s Millennium Summit. The
spirit of the commendable initiatives adopted at the
Summit will produce the best results only through their
unrestricted practical implementation, although new
and unprecedented barriers have emerged on the way.
Our position on the issue of Security Council
reform is linked to the importance of making the
Organization more effective. Let us be honest and
admit that we have not been fully successful in
achieving this goal for years, and that we will now
have to cope with new and unprecedented challenges.
In my letter to the previous President of the General
Assembly I emphasized that, in addition to maintaining
sufficient representativeness, the Security Council
should also preserve sufficient operational flexibility.
We also believe that the Security Council should base
its decision-making on majority voting, and that the
right of veto should only be reserved for decisions
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter.
Slovakia supports the enlargement of the Security
Council in both the non-permanent and the permanent
categories of membership. However, the failure to
achieve consensus on the enlargement of one category
should not result in blocking enlargement in another
category. I avail myself of this opportunity to confirm
that while increasing the number of Security Council
members in the category of elected non-permanent
members, we consider it fully justified to allocate one
additional seat to the Group of Eastern European
States. Its membership has doubled in the last decade.
Exceptionally urgent current challenges have cast
a malicious shadow of destruction over this year’s
agenda of the General Assembly, which I have not
commented on in detail. I would like, however, to
assure the Assembly that Slovakia believes in the need
for a universal world organization — which the United
Nations is — as a source of hope for a better and more
just world. We have no doubts about the irreplaceable
role of the United Nations in tackling global issues, be
it the protection of human rights, the eradication of
famine, poverty, diseases and illiteracy or the
prevention of drug and arms proliferation or
guaranteeing sustainable development. A life of dignity
for all of us is really unthinkable without the enduring
involvement of the United Nations. However, it
requires universal respect of its paramount place in
international life, and joint cooperation in intensifying
its activities.
In conclusion, I would like to underline the
feeling of deep satisfaction of my country, and me
personally, with the appointment of Mr. Kofi Annan to
serve a second term as the United Nations Secretary-
General. I also wish to voice our recognition of the
honour given to him personally and to our universal
world Organization through the prestigious and well-
deserved award of the centenary Nobel Peace Prize,
and to congratulate him wholeheartedly on this
achievement



"
56,2001,CMR,"﻿I should like at the outset to express the
profound sympathy and condolences of Cameroon to
the Government and the people of the United States of
America and of the Dominican Republic for the
accident involving the American Airlines Airbus on 12
November in New York.
It was also with great dismay and sadness that we
learned of the natural disaster that struck the brotherly
people of Algeria with such severity. On behalf of the
people and the Government of Cameroon, I would like
to extend to that country our most profound
condolences and solidarity.
Rarely has a session of the General Assembly
been such a focus of international public attention or
aroused the interest of the worldwide media to the
extent that the current session has. The annual session
of the General Assembly is a powerful symbol of the
coming together of nations, the promotion of cultures
and respect for differences and freedoms. This year,
however, a shadow has been cast over our session by
the recent, terrible attacks of 11 September, which took
place not far from here. Cameroon addressed that
subject at length during the debate on international
terrorism that took place on 5 October. I should
therefore simply like to reaffirm, on behalf of His
Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, President of the Republic of
Cameroon, our sincere condolences to the families that
have suffered as a result of the tragedy, as well as our
solidarity with the city of New York and the
Government of the United States.
We must, of course, emerge from this period of
mourning. We must unite our forces to eliminate the
centres of destruction that are responsible for this
tragedy. Each of the States Members of the United
Nations, acting together, must nip international
terrorism in the bud before it spreads any further.
Lowering our guard when confronted with this great
peril, or appearing to be helpless in the face of the
criminal fanatics who are sowing terror, would expose
each State and each individual on earth, turning them
into potential victims of this lethal danger.
The President of the General Assembly, Mr. Han,
comes from Korea, whose patient, wise and resolute
peoples have long been engaged in a courageous
political struggle to heal the wounds of the past. We are
convinced that he will be able to guide the Assembly at
its fifty-sixth session through this period of great
turbulence. He can rest assured of my delegation’s full
support.
The delegation of Cameroon would also like to
express its gratitude to his predecessor, His Excellency
Mr. Harri Holkeri, who presided with great skill over
the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth
session. He perfectly reflected the modest, generous
and supportive character of Finland.
The award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the United
Nations and its Secretary-General is cause for hope and
optimism for the development of the Organization.
Cameroon welcomes that dual tribute. As the head of
State of Cameroon said in his message of
congratulations to the Secretary-General, Africa is
proud that the Oslo jury chose to honour Kofi Annan.
That award strengthens and reaffirms the unanimity
and confidence of the General Assembly, which
presided over the re-election — an election that seemed
quite natural — of that great servant of the peoples of
the United Nations for a second mandate as Secretary-
General of our Organization.
Indeed, all States Members of the United Nations
must be proud that the Nobel Peace Prize was also
awarded to the Organization. It is the first time in the
history of the United Nations that the Organization
itself has been honoured with such a distinction. That
gesture confirms — if such a confirmation was
needed — that the Organization, in which we are all
players, is truly a major instrument of world peace that
embodies all of our hopes for a better world.
As an instrument of world peace, the United
Nations took up, the day after the attacks of 11
September, both the struggle against international
terrorism and the crisis in Afghanistan. The
international community as a whole, through Security
Council and General Assembly resolutions, was able to
support the military intervention carried out against the
presumed masterminds of those attacks, their networks
and their Taliban protectors.
In the same way that we honour the memory of
the victims of New York, Washington, D.C., and
Pennsylvania, we must also honour the memory of the
32

civilian victims in Afghanistan, including the three
French and German journalists.
Cameroon, I repeat, believes that the alleged
criminals must be held responsible for their actions.
Moreover, we urge the international community to
strive to prevent Afghanistan from re-engaging with
the old demons of conflict between the armed clans
that have defeated the Taliban today. Cameroon
therefore calls for an immediate manifestation of the
United Nations presence in Kabul.
Under the powers granted to it by the
international community, in particular under Chapter
VII of the Charter, the Security Council, with the
essential support of all Members of our Organization,
must swiftly undertake all necessary actions to restore
and maintain peace in Afghanistan and to provide
humanitarian assistance to people who have been left
destitute and traumatized by an apparently endless civil
war.
We must urgently prevent the flames of war from
spreading inexorably throughout Afghanistan. We must
also recall from this rostrum, however, that it is high
time to douse the fires that have been burning for
decades in Palestine, a land of peace. We must
extinguish the fires that, conflict after conflict, are
devastating the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
the Great Lakes region, as well as those that have
consumed Angola for over 25 years. It is high time
that, like those who fought the fires in New York on 11
September, we act as firefighters to put an end to the
fratricidal wars of the African continent, Central
America and other disadvantaged regions of the planet.
We must remain vigilant in preserving the particularly
fragile peace in the Balkans.
We are convinced that the best firefighter to
contain the ravages of war and the threats that loom
over peace and security throughout the world is the
United Nations. Without the determination of States,
however, and the respect of those States for
unanimously adopted rules, it is vain to hope to achieve
the result targeted for the Organization by the Charter.
The activity of the United Nations will have no effect if
the resolutions it adopts to contribute to settling a
conflict are not respected by the parties concerned and
involved.
Why, after more than half a century, have we not
been able to end the conflict in the Middle East, in
which Palestinians and Israelis are in ever more brutal
and violent opposition? Why can we not find the
resources necessary to the United Nations to nip in the
bud the fratricidal wars that have bled and disrupted
entire regions of the African continent since the dawn
of independence? These are the persistent questions
that haunt international public opinion. Just as all men
must naturally be equal before the law, States must be
treated on the same footing of equality out of respect
for international law and the principles defined by the
United Nations.
The implementation of resolutions and
recommendations adopted at the Millennium Summit
would enable great progress to be made towards the
world of harmony that globalization is supposed to
establish. Man and the safeguarding of his life and
dignity, wherever he may live, must be restored as our
priority. Man and the safeguarding of his life and
dignity must once again be the central focus of our
actions, thoughts and concerns.
The attacks of 11 September in the United States
and the spotlighting of international terrorism must
prompt us to take action, of course, but it must also and
especially lead us to reflection. We have seen how the
promoters of those who thus endanger the new world
order also invoke a policy of double standards to
justify their fanatical acts. We have also read in many
of their communiqués their claim to be leading a
crusade on behalf of a religious community that,
according to them, has been treated unfairly by others.
We understand, finally, that they have also cited the
living conditions of many hundreds of millions of
people, the poorest of the poor, as an argument for
fighting that part of the world that plunders and
dominates them in a spirit of complete indifference. We
must do all we can to avoid giving such excuses and
pretexts to individuals and groups who in fact have
nothing but criminal motives.
Cameroon has maintained and continues to
maintain that the United Nations must, more than ever
before, continue to affirm the necessary links of
solidarity within the international community and the
need for balance in international relations. Support and
development assistance for the poorest regions of the
world are essentials recalled not only in the resolutions
of the Millennium Summit, but also at the most recent
Third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, held this year in Brussels. The
recovery efforts of the countries of the South — inter
alia, the New African Initiative on economic matters —
33

must be accompanied and supported by the most
prosperous States. During the annual session of the
Economic and Social Council last summer in Geneva,
over which Cameroon had the honour of presiding,
these principles and requirements were broadly
recalled and, thank goodness, endorsed.
In spite of the commitments undertaken at one
world summit after the other, the gap between the
regions of the North and the South is growing wider by
the day. Destitution, poverty, epidemics, the AIDS
pandemic and the technology divide are not matters of
fate. Over and above solidarity, a more just and
balanced practice of commercial exchange, notably
through the opening of markets to the most
disadvantaged countries, could also help to bridge that
gap. The forthcoming International Conference on
Financing for Development, to be held next year in
Mexico under United Nations auspices, should provide
an opportunity for a deeper reflection on these
priorities.
On 1 January 2002, Cameroon will take its place
at the Security Council table on behalf of Africa as a
non-permanent member. I would like to express on
behalf of His Excellency Paul Biya, President of the
Republic of Cameroon, all of our gratitude to all of the
Member States of our Organization for the confidence
placed in my country. In the current international
circumstances, we realize the full value of this
confidence.
Cameroon is committed to fully assuming its
official duties in making its modest contribution, in the
Council, to the maintenance of international peace and
security.




"
56,2001,SDN,"﻿Allow me
to extend, on behalf of the people and Government of
the Sudan, our heartfelt condolences to the Government
and people of the Dominican Republic and to the
families of the victims of the tragic American Airlines
crash that took place earlier this week.
We would also like to express our condolences to
the brotherly people of Algeria, who recently suffered
sweeping floods in their country.
At the outset, I would like to express to you,
Mr. President, our warm congratulations on your
election as President of the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly. We are pleased to assure you of our
confidence in your ability to lead our work to success.
We would also like to express our gratitude to
Mr. Harri Holkeri for the able and efficient way in
which he discharged the presidency during the last
session.
I would also like to salute Mr. Kofi Annan,
Secretary-General of the United Nations, and extend to
him our warm congratulations on his re-election to
head the Organization for a second term. I am pleased
to congratulate him once again on winning the Nobel
25

Peace Prize. We are confident that he will continue in
his untiring efforts to lead the Organization towards its
noble objectives of achieving a better tomorrow for
humanity.
This session is being held at a time of extremely
complex developments in the wake of the tragic
terrorist acts that took place in New York and
Washington, D.C. From this podium, I would like to
reaffirm Sudan’s condemnation and denunciation of
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We would
like to express once again our sincere condolences to
the Government of the United States and to the families
of the victims.
The Sudan calls upon the Organization to rise to
the onerous challenges, heavy burdens and subsequent
repercussions of these events. This will require a
coordinated and collective international effort to
combat terrorism and uproot its causes and sources
under the authority of international legitimacy. In this
context, we must differentiate between good and
evil — we must avoid putting both in one basket. We
should not confuse the issues, because if we do, good
might be transformed into evil.
I would like to take this opportunity to emphasize
Sudan’s readiness to continue to participate in and
contribute to this effort. Sudan has ranked first among
Member States that have ratified or acceded to
international conventions on terrorism. At the regional
level, Sudan was among the first countries to ratify the
Arab Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism. It
has also ratified the Convention of the Organization of
the Islamic Conference on Combating International
Terrorism. We are in the process of ratifying the
Convention of the Organization of African Unity on the
Prevention and Combating of Terrorism. At the
national level, we have adopted a law to fight
terrorism. Through these measures, my country is
helping to build a proper and sound foundation for
combating and uprooting international terrorism in
accordance with international legitimacy.
I would like to join those who preceded me by
saying that terrorism does not belong to a particular
religion, nationality, or ethnic group. It is an
international phenomenon. Therefore, we must
coordinate our efforts internationally to uproot it. We
deplore efforts in some circles to link terrorism with
Islam in cheap attempt to sow discord among the
followers of divine religions and to portray the issue as
a clash between cultures and civilizations. Islam is a
religion of peace and tolerance, and as such is far from
having any connection to terrorism.
The proceedings of this session could not have
come at a more opportune moment for us in the Sudan.
We reaped the benefit of our common efforts supported
by our brothers and friends to lift the sanctions that
have been imposed on the Sudan by the Security
Council since 1996. This will contribute to Sudan’s
further cooperation with the international community.
In this context, the Sudan calls upon the Security
Council to pursue this objective policy and review the
sanctions it has imposed on a number of countries,
including Libya and Iraq.
The Sudan also calls upon the Security Council to
dispatch a fact-finding mission in connection with the
Alshifa pharmaceutical factory in the Sudan, which
was destroyed by American missiles in August 1998.
We believe that the bombardment of this factory was a
flagrant mistake committed by the former American
administration. It is a mistake that should be
recognized and corrected, which would allow Member
States and peoples of the world to regain confidence in
the Organization and help remove a source of
grievance and injustice. Thus the people of the world
could live together in a world of justice, equality,
security and peace.
The delegation of the Sudan believes that now is
the time to end the unilateral coercive economic
measures imposed on certain countries, including the
Sudan, which have negative effects on many sectors of
our population, particularly women and children.
We in the Sudan look forward to a new era in our
relations with the Organization following the lifting of
the sanctions imposed on our country. We are pleased
to confirm that we will endeavour to make every
possible moral and intellectual effort to support the
activities of the Organization that promote the well-
being of humanity. We also anticipate that the
Organization will play an effective role and make a
new contribution towards assisting the Sudan in the
implementation of its national development
programmes, including the eradication of poverty and
the rehabilitation of areas destroyed by war.
26

The Sudan, as the current Chair of two African
regional organizations, the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development and the Community of
Sahelo-Saharan States, would like once again to recall
the historic Declaration adopted by the Millennium
Summit so as to confront the challenges faced at all
levels by the international community in the twenty-
first century. The Sudan hopes this Declaration will be
translated into real and tangible action aimed at
achieving justice and equality and the full participation
of all Member States in the creation of a better
tomorrow where human beings will be liberated from
fear, poverty and destitution.
For us to realize our aspirations, this session
should give special attention to reforming the
Organization’s organs, since they are the mechanisms
through which the international community coordinates
plans to realize international peace and security,
comprehensive development and prosperity for all
humanity. The Security Council tops the list of these
organs. Member States have been calling for an
expansion of its membership in the permanent and non-
permanent categories, so that it will be more
representative of the current United Nations
membership. They have also called for improvement in
its working methods and decision-making process,
which should be more democratic and transparent.
The General Assembly should be enabled to carry
out its role as enshrined in the United Nations Charter
with respect to maintaining international peace and
security, and should also exercise its duty to hold other
organs of the Organization accountable.
We should like to emphasize the need to
revitalize the role of the Economic and Social Council,
considering that it is the forum that sets out
international development policies. Its resolutions
should be linked more to economic and social aspects
than to political ones. The Council should be guided by
the decisions adopted at the Vienna Conference, which
considered the right to development an inalienable
human right.
All countries that participated in the World
Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban,
South Africa, unanimously confirmed their utmost
determination to eradicate all forms of racism and
xenophobia and to address their root causes in order to
achieve justice and fairness for all peoples who have
suffered and continue to suffer from the scourge of
these heinous practices. The Sudan supported the
implementation of recommendations from the Durban
Conference, including those of the Group of eminent
persons.
With regard to the deteriorating situation in the
Middle East, the Sudan expresses its deep concern at
the stalemate in the peace process and reaffirms the
need for total Israeli withdrawal from the occupied
Arab territories in accordance with United Nations
resolutions. This will enable the Palestinian people to
regain its sovereignty over its territories and establish
its independent State with holy Jerusalem as its capital,
and allow sisterly Syria and Lebanon to restore their
sovereignty over all their occupied territories.
The Sudan also reiterates its deep concern for the
negative humanitarian impacts of the current military
operations in Afghanistan on the civilian population.
We welcome and support the mission of the Secretary-
General’s representative, Lakhdar Brahimi, to bring
peace and stability to Afghanistan.
With regard to Somalia, where the tragedies of
the long-standing war spread negative effects to the
whole region of the Horn of Africa, the Sudan
delegation calls upon all Somali parties to respond to
the voice of reason and complete national
reconciliation in Somalia, allowing Somalia to fulfil its
regional and international role.
By the decision adopted at the eighth
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD)
Summit in Khartoum last November, the Sudan was
mandated, together with neighbouring countries, to
complete the national reconciliation efforts in
coordination with Somalia’s Transitional Government.
In conformity with this mandate to restore stability in
Somalia, the President of the Republic of the Sudan,
Omer Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir, current Chairman of
IGAD, has appointed a special envoy for peace in that
sisterly country. The special envoy is engaged in
intensive contacts with the countries of the subregion,
the Transitional Government in Somalia, the different
Somali factions and the IGAD secretariat. From this
podium, the delegation of the Sudan calls upon the
United Nations and the international community to
support the efforts to restore security, stability and
infrastructure in Somalia, so that the Government will
be able to fulfil its commitments and establish peace
and stability in the country.
27

We understand the concern of the international
community over the continuation of the war in the
southern Sudan. I would like to bring to the
Assembly’s attention the position of the Government of
the Sudan with a view to ending the war and achieving
peace through the following steps: an immediate,
supervised and total ceasefire; regular access to
humanitarian assistance for the population in need;
negotiations on a political solution to the problem; and
the reconstruction of the areas affected by the war.
The ninth IGAD Summit is to be held in
Khartoum in January of next year. We hope that the
questions of the Sudan and Somalia will be given the
importance they deserve so that leaders will come away
with a clear vision of how to end the war and restore
peace in this sensitive region of the world.
In this context, I would like to refer to the
statement of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of
human rights in the Sudan before the Third Committee
last week. He stated that the war in the Sudan is not a
religious war, as is repeatedly alleged by some circles
wishing to distort the truth.
I would like to take this opportunity to commend
the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya for their joint initiative for peace and
reconciliation in the Sudan. I would also like to pay
tribute to IGAD member States for their initiative to
stop the war in the Sudan and the genuine efforts to
restore peace in my country. The Government of the
Sudan will continue its commitment to cooperating
with the United Nations, donor countries and
humanitarian organizations in order to facilitate the
delivery of humanitarian assistance to the victims of
the war.
With regard to economics, the Government has
maintained and enhanced reform and liberalization
programmes and has introduced measures and
incentives to promote local and foreign private
investment. The Sudan has now succeeded in
normalizing its relations with regional and
international financial institutions. A positive sign of
this is an increase in local investments and steady
flows of foreign investment to the Sudan.
We are mindful of the accelerated pace of
globalization in the domain of international law,
especially in the field of criminal liability and bringing
before international criminal authorities individuals
charged with committing heinous crimes prohibited by
international law.
In this connection, we believe it is imperative that
all States and individuals should stand as equals before
international law. The avoidance of double standards is
a true safeguard against the distortion of international
justice and ensures that it stays on the right path. We
have made considerable effort in the past few years, in
coordination with many countries of the world, to
guarantee the faithful application of these standards
and noble principles. To this end, the Sudan chose to
follow words with deeds by quickly signing the Rome
Statute establishing the International Criminal Court.
International cooperation on disarmament should
be based on commitment and adherence to
international law and the purposes and principles of the
United Nations Charter, including the sovereign
equality of States, territorial integrity, the peaceful
settlement of disputes, non-interference in the internal
affairs of other States and the legitimate right of States
to self-defence.
In conclusion, I would like to invite the Assembly
to reaffirm the political will required to achieve
international peace and security. I call upon all to adopt
concrete measures ensuring that globalization becomes
a positive engine of progress; that its advantages and
benefits are shared by humanity at large, not restricted
to a minority; and that globalization does not lead to
cultural and intellectual hegemony and is not used as a
means of political and economic pressure. If that
happened, it would undoubtedly result in widening the
development gap and the clash between the different
cultures of the North and the South.
Let us all join together in a new era of
international relations based on the rejection of
conflicts and confrontation, on mutual respect and non-
interference in the internal affairs of others. To this
end, I would like to reaffirm the Sudan’s commitment
and pledge to cooperate with the international
community to move forward in realizing the common
aspirations of all humanity.






"
56,2001,DEU,"﻿Only a few moments ago, we were informed of the
crash of a commercial airliner not far from here, in
Queens. At the moment, we do not know the cause of
this disaster, but we are shocked and horrified. I would
express to the bereaved families and to the American
people our sincere condolences and sympathy.
It has been only two months since thousands of
innocent persons lost their lives in the World Trade
Center here in New York. Today, we are seeing the
extent to which the people here have been affected. In
the entire history of the United Nations, there has never
been a situation like this one.
Throughout the world, people have expressed
their sincere solidarity with and commiseration for the
victims and their families. These horrific terrorist
attacks struck not just Americans, but also innocent
people from over 80 countries, members of all the
major world religions and cultures. They targeted us
all. It must therefore be a common concern of humanity
to prevent a recurrence of this tragedy or indeed
something even worse.
The events of 11 September thrust a dangerous
future upon the world. We now live in the terrible
knowledge that no country in the globalized world is
invulnerable and that enemies within, who are
determined to kill and to die, can perpetrate mass
murder at any time. This eerie, awful danger has at a
stroke dramatically altered the foundations of security
policy as we know it. The fight against internationally
operative terrorist networks will require new responses
from the community of States. International terrorism
is a challenge above all for politics, the military, the
police and the judiciary, as well as for the economy
and — very importantly — for culture. At the dawn of
the twenty-first century, the issue of peace and security
has thus taken on an entirely new perspective.
Humanity has rarely been as united as it was on
that terrible day two months ago. This unity was born
not only of horror and compassion, but also of the
realization that we can successfully counter this new
deadly threat only if we combine our full force and
energy. The day of 11 September was a defining
moment that altered the direction of world politics. A
new alliance was created. It must now be strengthened
and developed into a genuine partnership. If this is
achieved, 11 September could go down in history not
only as a horrific day for humanity, but also as the
beginning of a new era of cooperation and
multilateralism.
What drives people to commit these
inconceivable crimes and to blow up themselves and
thousands of innocents? From where does such
uncontrollable hatred come? How can it be curbed?
How can it be conquered? It is certain that in any
attempt to develop an effective counter-strategy we
must, while waging the war on terrorism, analyse the
full range of causes and circumstances that permit such
hatred and violence to grow.
The United Nations is uniquely suited to the task
ahead. It provides the forum required for the creation
12

of a universal coalition. Only it can give international
legitimacy to the response to terrorism. It has at its
disposal the instruments to manage political conflicts
and the underlying development problems that nurture
hatred and despair.
A comprehensive strategy against terrorism must
concentrate primarily on prevention. Developing such a
strategy means nothing less than drafting a policy for a
cooperative world order for the twenty-first century, a
policy that no longer tolerates areas characterized by a
breakdown of order, a policy that has as its goal a
world order under which all peoples can claim their
full and equitable share. This includes making
economic globalization more socially just for more
people and supplementing it with the political
globalization so urgently needed.
The Security Council responded to 11 September
with rare solidarity and, with resolutions 1368 (2001)
and 1373 (2001), took decisions on concrete,
internationally binding anti-terrorism measures that
point the way ahead. The General Assembly, too,
severely condemned the terrorist attacks and called for
joint action against international terrorism.
This path must now be rigorously pursued with
the rapid and universal ratification and implementation
of the 12 United Nations anti-terrorism conventions
and the adoption of a comprehensive convention on
international terrorism. We must endeavour anew to
bring this project, on which we all place so much hope,
to a successful conclusion. I therefore call upon all
States that have not yet approved the present
compromise to reconsider their position.
The International Criminal Court can also become
a valuable instrument in the fight against terrorism.
Under article 7, paragraph 1, of its statute, it will have
jurisdiction to try cases of murder “when committed as
part of a widespread or systematic attack directed
against any civilian population”. There can be no doubt
that the attacks on New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania fulfil this requirement. For this reason, I
would like to ask you all once again to ratify the Rome
Statute as quickly as possible.
The attack on the World Trade Center was a
wake-up call to the profound threat to world peace that
can be posed by failing States. Areas where political
and social order has collapsed offer terrorists a safe
haven from which they can organize their murderous
networks worldwide. The community of States urgently
needs to take a closer and preventive look at the
problem of failing States — but not just in
Afghanistan, and not only after a catastrophe has
occurred.
No conflict prevention measures have ever been
undertaken in Afghanistan. Far from it. This has
proved to be a fatal error. For more than 20 years, a
humanitarian catastrophe has been playing itself out
before the eyes of the world, in which women and
children, in particular, have suffered. Civil war, human
rights violations and abject misery have also been the
nourishing ground for the unprecedented symbiosis
between the terrorists of the Al Qaeda group and the
Taliban regime.
From there the trail leads directly to the horrific
attacks in the United States. As hard as this decision
may be, without the use of military means, this threat
cannot be averted. We must not forget that the suffering
of the people in Afghanistan is above all the work of
the Taliban. It was the Taliban that, long before 11
September, increasingly impeded effective
humanitarian relief, robbed women and girls of all their
rights and actively supported terrorism, also with the
goal of destabilizing Arab and Muslim States.
Not to react would indeed be to invite further
terror and oppression and would be extremely
dangerous for world peace. The dramatic nature of this
threat is illustrated by Osama bin Laden’s statement
that he will not shrink from using even nuclear
weapons. Civilian means alone are unfortunately not
always enough to put an end to violence and terror.
This was the case in the Balkans.
In Afghanistan, too, the root of the tragic conflict
is profoundly political, and so the solution, too, can
ultimately only be a political one. It must come from
within, must reflect the diversity of peoples in Afghan
society and must be accepted by the Afghan people.
But a peaceful solution also requires assistance from
the international community. Afghanistan must not be
left alone with its problems yet again.
A clear political and humanitarian perspective for
Afghanistan is now crucial. The United Nations should
be the coordinating agency for all peace efforts. It is
indispensable as the framework for the political
process and as the guarantor of internal agreements
within Afghanistan. Only a peace process under the
auspices of the United Nations will succeed in
excluding external involvement in the future and
13

ensuring a peaceful future for the country in harmony
with its neighbours. Germany and the European Union
are willing to play their part towards a political
solution for Afghanistan and to participate in the long
term in the economic and social reconstruction of
Afghanistan.
More than anything, the refugees and the civilian
population must be helped. We cannot tolerate the fact
that the Taliban is hindering humanitarian access and is
using the civilian population as a shield. Especially
because of the approaching winter, we must do
everything in our power to provide the people with at
least the most basic necessities and to alleviate their
despair and hardship. Is it possible to establish
humanitarian protected areas, to use the expulsion of
the Taliban from Mazar-e-Sharif and other towns to
improve the humanitarian situation, and to make a
town like Kabul an open city? Of course this will be
very difficult, but let us nevertheless think without
taboos about absolutely all ways in which we could
help the people. As chair of the Afghanistan Support
Group, Germany has issued an invitation to a meeting
in Berlin at the beginning of December. I appeal to all
States to make a great humanitarian effort now and to
come to the aid of the downtrodden Afghan people.
Solving regional conflicts will be of critical
importance in the fight against terrorism. The Middle
East conflict is a top priority. Our hearts go out to the
many innocent victims on all sides. Both the Israeli and
Palestinian peoples have a right to live free of fear, in
dignity and in peace. This is indivisible not only from
Israel’s right of statehood, as recognized in Madrid —
which is, in our view, inviolable — but also from its
security. Germany bears a special responsibility
towards Israel stemming from its past. Any policy that
aims at destroying Israel by means of terrorism or
otherwise will face determined opposition from
Germany. However, we equally advocate the
Palestinians’ right to self-determination and their right
to their own State, Palestine. In the European Union
Berlin Declaration of March 1999 we stated that “the
creation of a democratic, viable and peaceful sovereign
Palestinian State on the basis of existing agreements
and through negotiations would be the best guarantee
of Israel’s security”. This is truer today than ever
before.
Never before has there been broader international
backing for a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. The Mitchell recommendations still form the
basis for the timetable accepted by all sides, and in
their spirit we call on Israelis and Palestinians alike to
put an immediate and lasting end to violence and
confrontation, to resume the agreed direct talks without
delay and to seriously implement the negotiated
ceasefires. These talks must lead to genuine
negotiations on a viable political solution.
The real aim of the terrorists is to trigger a clash
of civilizations and to inflame the situation in the Near
and Middle East. Under no circumstances can we allow
ourselves to be drawn into such a conflict. We are
fighting international terrorism, not Islam.
We must counter the terrorist strategy designed to
bring about the clash of civilizations with a dialogue of
cultures and religions. We need a spiritual debate based
on mutual understanding that attempts to reach genuine
agreement on the fundamental values that unite us.
Such a dialogue presupposes the existence of shared
values, but also respect for other traditions and
differences between peoples. However, one thing must
be clear: human rights are universal, not Western
values. Consensus was reached on them by the
international community of States in the Charter of the
United Nations and the human rights conventions.
Any dialogue must build on the universality of
human rights. It must be conducted with respect for the
dignity of all involved, in tolerance and openness. It
must start at home, within cultures themselves. It can
bear fruit only if it is pursued free of all constraint.
And it has a purpose only if all participants are also
ready to offer self-criticism.
The insidious anthrax attacks since 11 September
show that the threat from weapons of mass destruction
in terrorist hands, which yesterday seemed abstract, is
today a real and deadly danger. The community of
States must do everything in its power to counter it
with a new push for non-proliferation and global
disarmament.
The dangers of the dissemination of weapons to
non-State groups and of regional arms races require
new answers and effective, internationally enforceable
criminal sanctions. In the nuclear field, the
commitment contained in the Non-Proliferation Treaty
to complete nuclear disarmament remains crucial. As
regards biological weapons, in view of the acute threat,
effective global control mechanisms must finally be
created. The Chemical Weapons Convention must be
more rigorously implemented. All States are called
14

upon to participate in the negotiation of an
international code of conduct on ballistic missile
proliferation.
The fight now beginning against terrorism must
build on the awareness that the first world cannot in the
long term live secure and safe from the tensions and
conflicts of the third world. Almost one quarter of the
world population is starving. Ninety-five per cent of
those infected with AIDS live in developing countries.
Africa is particularly hard hit. At present only a
minority of the world’s citizens profit from the
opportunities for growth offered by globalization and
from the use of the new information technologies. This
state of affairs cannot be accepted, even by the rich
countries — for moral reasons, but also because
tensions and conflicts today spread much more quickly
and widely than ever before.
The battle against poverty cannot be won unless
we take equally determined steps to preserve the
natural resources on which life depends. At the coming
World Summit in Johannesburg we must make a
quantum leap forward towards sustainable
development, improved poverty eradication and better
management of our natural resources. The Kyoto
Protocol must enter into force next year. And we must
strengthen the sole advocate of the global environment,
the United Nations Environment Programme,
institutionally, operationally and financially.
11 September made it horrifyingly clear that the
human race will not be able to live in peace and
security in the absence of political order at the global
and regional levels.
Germany will continue to do its utmost to bring
about the strengthening of the United Nations and its
capacity to act, so that the world will be a more
peaceful, just and humane place in the twenty-first
century than it was in the twentieth century. The future
belongs to responsible governance for one world,
governance based not on hegemonic claims, but on
cooperation, solidarity and multilateralism. If together
we succeed in implementing such a policy, we will not
just ultimately win the war against terrorism but will
also be able to eradicate its roots forever.




"
56,2001,MCO,"﻿In taking the floor here at the
Headquarters of our Organization — recipient of the
2001 Nobel Peace Prize — meeting in New York,
which has been so tragically attacked, I wish naturally,
at the outset, to renew to the delegation of the United
States and the great country it represents, our friend,
and the American people the expression of heartfelt
sympathy of the Principality of Monaco. Confronted
with insane actions that prompt horror and indignation,
we find ourselves in natural solidarity in this ordeal, as
well as in the task that now faces the international
community of making decisions and working so that
our States and societies will be spared other appalling
violent acts in the future.
I would like once again to extend to you, Mr.
President, and to all the members of the Bureau our
sincere congratulations on your election to the
presidency of this session of the General Assembly. I
am confident that, under your great leadership, our
work will be carried out in a way that will best meet
the expectations of the international community. I also
wish to assure you of the spirit of cooperation of the
delegation of Monaco.
I also wish to hail the brilliant re-election of the
Secretary-General, a clear sign of the confidence that
we have in his intelligence and humanity, which are
linked to his profound knowledge of the circumstances
in which he must discharge his noble mission regarding
world affairs, of which our Organization is seized. We
also wish to assure him of the great satisfaction that the
Principality of Monaco, my country, shares at the
11

renewal of his mandate and of our full support, which
we will continue to offer him.
We are very gratified that the 2001 Nobel Peace
Prize was awarded to him jointly with our
Organization, a fully deserved and justified reward that
should motivate us — the States Members of the
United Nations — to work together even more with
him to champion peace and to fight the many seeds of
conflict that threaten our world, terrorism, human
rights violations, underdevelopment and pandemics
such as AIDS.
The tragic circumstances in which this session of
the General Assembly is taking place make it our duty
to contribute with even greater determination than in
the past to the struggle against terrorism. Owing to
their enormity and to the defiance that is behind them,
its manifestations can, as we have seen, pose a grave
threat to international peace and security. The
Principality of Monaco firmly supports everything the
Organization has adopted and implemented to stifle
this scourge, which can be so devastating to the
principles we all hold. The fact that what a lawyer
would call “edged weapons” were enough to bring
down one of the most modern and sophisticated
symbols of human creativity reminds us of the fragility
of our societies, which densely populated urban centres
and interdependence in all vital areas make even more
vulnerable in the light of the boundless contempt of
some for human life and human dignity.
Among the most important of the commitments
our States have undertaken on behalf of their peoples
by signing the Charter of the United Nations are the
obligations to maintain international peace and
security, to develop friendly relations among nations
and to encourage respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms: commitments that a handful of
terrorists, in their blind facelessness, rejected with
appalling arrogance and savage brutality.
Two months to the day have elapsed since that
tragic event. Although emotions have by no means
subsided, the healing effects of time are beginning to
give us a little of the sense of distance that is so
necessary for more objective consideration of this
astonishing political challenge and this unacceptable
human tragedy.
The General Assembly very quickly undertook
such consideration through its debate in early October
on measures to eliminate international terrorism. For
its part, the Security Council had already correctly
marked out the initial path and the principal guidelines.
And the Secretary-General has repeatedly called on
Member States to remain more united than ever, and it
appears that his words have been heeded.
Although the nature of terrorism did not change
on 11 September, its scale did. The General Assembly
decided to respond with a complete cohesiveness that
has been rare in its history. By adopting its resolution
1373 (2001), the Security Council did not shrink from
drawing on the full scope and range of its powers under
Chapter VII of the Charter; it took note of the existence
of a threat to peace and an act of aggression and thus
decided on the exceptional measures that the
Principality of Monaco is proud to be implementing.
For us, following up on these initiatives with the
necessary effectiveness means not only implementing
the resolutions that reflect our common determination
and our commitment to fight terrorism and formulating
additional agreements and conventions, but also, first
and foremost, bringing our expertise to the
implementation of instruments that have already been
concluded and to which we have acceded or intend to
accede. Improving the Organization’s action in the
legal sphere is both indispensable and of top priority;
we know this, as does the Government of the
Principality. Therefore, yesterday I signed and
deposited, on behalf of my father, the sovereign Prince,
the instruments of ratification of the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism. The Principality of Monaco considers it
essential that there be coordinated worldwide action
against all forms of financing of terrorism, in order to
deprive extremist movements of the resources that
enable them to do such serious harm to the
international community and to its deep-seated
aspirations to peace and security. Afghanistan, much of
whose territory is occupied and a portion of whose
people are today enslaved, is the most telling example
of this.
The visionary Millennium Declaration and the
outcomes of recent world conferences — such as the
United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small
Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and the
Durban World Conference Against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related
Intolerance — also merit special attention. Without
question, these latter can contribute greatly to
improving, respectively, international security and
12

understanding among peoples. On the fight against
racism, the subject of the Durban World Conference, I
would note that the Government of the Principality of
Monaco has decided to recognize the competence of
the Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination, established under the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination, to receive and process communications
from individuals or groups of persons charging
violations of a right set out in that instrument, to which
Monaco is a party.
International economic and financial cooperation,
with its inevitable human and social consequences,
must also be included in the reflection prompted by
these events, which is more necessary than ever in the
light of the issues facing us today. Because it is in
part the result of the new interdependence, the
globalization of trade in products, manufactured goods
and services — disparaged by some and hailed by
others — must also be a part of our urgent intellectual
and practical endeavours, so that beyond the
constraints and imperatives that guide it, human beings
can regain their just, legitimate role. Above all, the
economy must serve today’s men and women, with
respect for their legitimate aspirations, their vital needs
and the age-old richness of their diversity.
Regional and subregional cooperation is
particularly conducive to such a goal. My country is
convinced of that; in the Mediterranean area we are
engaged in the trade, culture and technological spheres,
and are working to promote sustainable development
and environmental protection. Nor should we neglect
activities which by their nature tend to bring together
men and women from different backgrounds, such as
artistic and cultural events, academic meetings and
sporting competitions. In the Assembly’s debate on the
agenda item entitled “Building a peaceful and better
world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, the
delegation of Monaco will recall the irreplaceable role
in that connection of physical education and sport, as
well as of the Olympic games.
Another way to bring human communities
together is the multilingualism for which the United
Nations must be a model. That key item is on the
Assembly’s agenda this year. The Principality of
Monaco will state its views on that subject and will
stress the remarkable and unquestionable advantages of
multilingualism for genuine understanding and mutual
respect among peoples.
Alongside modern science and technology, which
are moving forward and rapidly becoming universal,
thus fostering exchanges among peoples, more
traditional forms of communication also have an
important role to play. In our view, teaching and
information, more than ever before, have a
fundamental role in spreading ideas of peace and
understanding among men and women in our troubled
times. Here, the General Conference of the United
Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific
Organization has given us excellent regulatory texts,
working documents and programmes that we must
revitalize with increased energy in order to provide
greater hope to young people, who are often frustrated
by the harshness of daily life.
We also, and very often, give thought to the seas
and the oceans, which made such a contribution in
ancient times to meetings of civilizations and to the
spread of knowledge, thus enriching art and culture
while developing trade and solidarity. A few days from
now, the delegation of Monaco will state its views
during the consideration of the agenda item on oceans
and the law of the sea. My country has always been
devoted to better scientific knowledge and careful
protection of the marine environment, an indispensable
source for the harmonious flourishing of life.
Thus the Principality of Monaco, with other
Member States, requests the Assembly to grant
observer status to the International Hydrographic
Organization, for which it is the headquarters, in order
to allow that institution to strengthen its cooperation
with Governments and to advance international
initiatives and exchanges in marine cartography —
initiatives and exchanges designed to spread
knowledge of seabeds and coastal zones, as well as to
make navigation easier and safer.
Respect for the decisions and resolutions taken by
our forums and the strengthening of our regulatory
actions, as well as the implementation of the
declarations and plans of action of our recent global
conferences, are significant commitments to which the
authorities of the Government of the Principality of
Monaco are dedicated. In our difficult times, they
represent shared values which prompt us to act together
in the interest of our international community, which is
also in the interest of each of our countries.
To close on an optimistic note, allow me to
express the hope — a hope that I believe is shared by
13

many here — that the wisdom of nations united more
than ever before will be able to triumph rapidly over
the evil represented by terrorism in its new global and
universal form, while extirpating from the world the
stubborn roots that fuel it.





"
56,2001,SGP,"﻿It does seem
strange to congratulate Minister Han Seung-soo on his
appointment as President of the General Assembly so
late in this session. But we live in unusual times. The
United Nations needs clear leadership. With his
distinguished track record in public service in the
Republic of Korea, we are confident that Minister Han
will provide it to this Assembly. We assure him of our
full support.
We also congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri for his
commendable leadership last year and, of course, the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and the United
Nations on the Nobel Peace Prize that they received.
The timing of this General Assembly indicates
the difficult circumstances we are in. Never before in
its 56-year history has the United Nations had to
postpone the general debate. Clearly, the terrorist
attacks of 11 September have already had drastic and
immediate international consequences. The long-term
consequences are still unknown. But we can be sure
that they will be both powerful and wide-ranging.
For the short term, the events of 11 September
have shaken an already vulnerable world economy. The
developed world is suffering a growing economic
slowdown. This is well known. Unfortunately, what is
less well known are the damaging effects of the
terrorist attacks on developing countries. In the
developed countries, which provide the principal
engine of the world’s economy, the attacks have
undermined consumer confidence, disrupted commerce
and destroyed wealth. But these are temporary shocks
from which the developed world can and will recover.
But what the terrorist attacks have dramatically
highlighted is the reality of interdependence in today’s
globalized world. Joseph Stiglitz, a recent Nobel Prize
winner, like the United Nations, highlighted this
interdependence in a Washington Post article dated 11
November 2001. He said, “It used to be said that when
America sneezed, Mexico caught a cold. Now, when
America sneezes, much of the world catches cold. And
according to recent data, America is not just sneezing,
it has a bad case of the flu.”
Hence, the developing countries, which depend
on a healthy global economy for their hopes of growth
and prosperity, face great dangers. The fear of
terrorism may constrict the key arteries of
globalization. We have already seen new precautions
taken in many countries, at ports, airports, train
stations, banks, media offices, government buildings,
factories, offices, hospitals and many other public
institutions. These precautions are important to protect
innocent people in their daily lives. However, they also
inevitably impose additional costs. These new
restrictions on travel, on shipping, on national and
international mail and on the free flow of goods and
information everywhere are effectively a tariff imposed
by terrorism upon the global community. Tragically, it
is also a regressive tariff, one that affects the poorer
members of the global community more.
34

If the arteries of globalization become
increasingly constricted and cease to function
effectively, developing countries will lose their best
chance of growing out of poverty. This will only
aggravate the hopelessness, marginalization, ignorance
and fear that can breed terrorism. We must avoid this
vicious cycle. In developed countries, the economic
slowdown is already strengthening protectionist voices
calling for restrictions on imports, the imposition of
non-tariff barriers, anti-dumping duties, restrictions on
migration and governmental support for domestic
industries. A genuine concern over terrorist use of
international financial and information networks could
also be used as a justification for restrictions on the
flows of international investment and information. And
developing countries need these flows.
Indeed, even before 11 September, developing
countries were not benefiting sufficiently from these
flows. The greater part of foreign direct investment
(FDI) flows mainly among developed countries. Of the
remainder, 12 major developing countries take 75 per
cent of private FDI to the developing world, while 140
developing countries take a share of only 5 per cent.
The poorest nations of the world therefore suffer not
from too many connections with the wider world, but
too few. Indeed, the poorest 48 countries account for
only 4 per cent of total world trade, while sub-Saharan
Africa receives only 5 per cent of the total net long-
term private capital flows to developing countries. At
the same time, in the developed countries, tariffs on the
export of goods of developing countries are 30 per cent
higher than the global average. The fact that tariffs on
goods of developing countries are 30 per cent higher
than the global average is truly a shocking statistic, and
we are surprised that this has not been highlighted
before in key forums. All this shows that the poor
countries cannot afford any further restrictions on
trade.
In this regard, we are relieved that the World
Trade Organization (WTO) meeting in Doha, Qatar,
which ended yesterday, has finally agreed to launch a
new round of trade talks that we hope will keep the
global economy on track towards freer trade and
investment. Today’s Wall Street Journal, which, as we
all know, is a conservative journal, drew this link
between the events of 11 September and the results of
Doha:
“In an effort to keep poorer nations on their
side in the war on terrorism, United States and
European negotiators went further than anyone
expected to meet the demands of the developing
world. …
“Ultimately, the United States and Europe
made big concessions to the developing world —
concessions fiercely resisted by pharmaceutical
and steel companies in the United States and
farmers in Europe.”
This Doha meeting therefore confirmed that the
needs of poorer countries will have to be addressed in
the months and years to come, because as a result of 11
September, poorer countries will certainly suffer more
than richer ones. To give another obvious example,
tourism from richer countries is a major source of
income for many developing countries. But the fear of
flying — which I think has become quite real
nowadays — engendered by the recent terrorist attacks
has already caused airlines all over the world to cut
flight schedules and in many cases terminate them
altogether. It is already much harder to get direct
flights from, say, New York City to many Latin
American destinations. The World Travel and Tourism
Council has estimated that the events of 11 September
may cause the loss of up to 8.8 million jobs in the
travel and tourism industry. Of these, only 2.3 million
will be in the United States and Europe. The rest will
be in the developing world. Clearly, the impact on
developing countries dependent on the tourist trade
will be enormous.
The record of the past 30 years shows clearly that
countries better integrated into the global economic
system have enjoyed greater long-term growth than
have relatively isolated countries. I can quote no better
authority than the Secretary-General, who has said,
“Success in achieving sustained growth depends
critically on expanding access to the opportunities
of globalisation. The countries that have achieved
higher growth are those that have successfully
integrated into the global economy and attracted
foreign investment.” (Making Globalisation Work
For The Poor, The Independent, 12 December
2000)
In a recent book, The End of Globalization:
Lessons from the Great Depression, the author Harold
James examines the fallout from a collapse of the
integrated world in an earlier era. He provides a
sobering historical perspective on what we are
experiencing today. In the era before the First World
35

War, the world was in many ways a well-integrated
place. Movement of capital, knowledge and labour
among both rich and poor countries was much less
restricted. The rise of protectionism and isolationism in
response to this led to the Great Depression of the first
half of the twentieth century. This long-lasting global
recession ended only with the outbreak of the Second
World War. This is not a cycle that we should repeat as
we enter the twenty-first century.
One big lesson of 11 September is therefore that
globalization, which we assume to be a powerful,
irresistible force, is actually a very fragile construct,
dependent on the will of its participants for its
continuing existence. If it collapses — and the point to
bear in mind is that it may collapse — developing
countries could suffer more. Hence, the terrorists who
destroyed the World Trade Center could also seriously
damage the global economic system that represents the
best chance that the developing countries have for
long-term development, growth and prosperity. If the
terrorists succeed, we will all be worse off.
Hence, at the recently concluded summit of the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in
Shanghai, China, APEC leaders representing 21
countries, both developed and developing, and coming
from three continents, unequivocally condemned
terrorist acts as a profound threat to the peace,
prosperity and security of all people, all faiths and all
nations and pledged to cooperate fully to ensure that
international terrorism does not disrupt economies and
markets. We are not engaged here merely in a struggle
between a few developed nations and a few terrorists.
The whole world is involved in this struggle.
Following 11 September, we in the international
community must act together to safeguard what we
have achieved and what we have yet to achieve. The
struggle against terrorism itself will take much time
and stamina. To track down the terrorist groups and rip
up their networks will be a difficult, long, messy and
even tedious business, requiring the cooperative efforts
of many countries. Countering terrorism must be an
international endeavour, and in this international
endeavour the United Nations has a critical role to play.
The United Nations remains the indispensable
forum to mobilize international opinion and develop a
strong political consensus against terrorism. Through
the Security Council, it also provides a platform for
practical cooperation, as we saw, for example, in
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Within the
United Nations system several bodies are already
seized of the various dimensions of terrorism. One
useful course of action would be for the various law
enforcement and other agencies dealing with terrorism
to get together to examine existing norms and practices
and areas for further cooperation. Where such
cooperation is already taking place bilaterally or
trilaterally among countries, the United Nations can
serve as a useful disseminator and clearing house of
information and best practices.
In the long term, the economic and social
conditions that encourage terrorists must be addressed
urgently, and certainly after 11 September, we now
know how urgent this task is. International economic
integration, while ultimately the only guarantor of
prosperity, is today incomplete in scope and uneven in
its distribution of costs and benefits. Many developing
countries remain imperfectly integrated into the world
economy. These problems must be addressed by
capacity-building and infrastructure development
within developing countries, with whatever
international assistance is necessary, and by the
elimination of trade barriers and protectionism in the
developed countries.
It is useful here to cite the latest World Bank
report, which states clearly that abolishing all trade
barriers could boost global income by $2.8 trillion —
that is an enormous sum — and could also lift as many
as 320 million people out of poverty by 2015. We hope
that the World Trade Organization negotiators will bear
this in mind when they commence the new round of
negotiations after the Doha, Qatar, meeting.
To conclude, please allow me to quote the
Secretary-General once again:
“In an increasingly globalized world, none
of the critical issues we are dealing with can be
resolved within a solely national framework. All
of them require cooperation, partnership and
burden-sharing among Governments, the United
Nations, regional organizations, non-
governmental organizations, the private sector
and civil society.” (A/56/1, para. 11)
Global actions, facilitated by consultative leadership,
are needed to address challenges of global dimensions.
We hope that we can make a small beginning at this
session of the General Assembly to do this.






"
56,2001,USA,"﻿We meet in a Hall devoted to
peace; in a city scarred by violence; in a nation
awakened to danger; in a world uniting for a long
struggle. Every civilized nation here today is resolved
to keep the most basic commitment of civilization. We
will defend ourselves and our future against terror and
lawless violence.
The United Nations was founded in this cause. In
the Second World War, we learned that there is no
isolation from evil. We affirmed that some crimes are
so terrible they offend humanity itself, and we resolved
that the aggressions and ambitions of the wicked must
be opposed early, decisively and collectively, before
they threaten us all.
That evil has returned, and that cause is renewed.
A few miles from here, many thousands still lie in a
tomb of rubble. Tomorrow, the Secretary-General, the
President of the General Assembly and I will visit that
site, where the names of every nation and region that
lost citizens will be read aloud. If we were to read out
the names of every person who died, it would take
more than three hours.
Those names include a citizen of the Gambia,
whose wife spent their fourth wedding anniversary, 12
September, searching in vain for her husband. Those
names include a man who supported his wife in
Mexico, sending home money every week. Those
names include a young Pakistani who prayed towards
Mecca five times a day and who died that day trying to
save others.
The suffering of 11 September was inflicted on
people of many faiths and many nations. All of the
victims, including Muslims, were killed with equal
indifference and equal satisfaction by the terrorist
leaders.
The terrorists are violating the tenets of every
religion, including the one they invoke. Last week, the
sheikh of Al-Azhar University, the world’s oldest
Islamic institution of higher learning, declared that
terrorism is a disease and that Islam prohibits killing
innocent civilians. The terrorists call their cause holy,
yet they fund it with drug dealing. They encourage
murder and suicide in the name of a great faith that
forbids both. They dare to ask God’s blessing as they
set out to kill innocent men, women and children. But
8

the God of Isaac and Ishmael would never answer such
a prayer. And a murderer is not a martyr; he is just a
murderer.
Time is passing. Yet for the United States of
America, there will be no forgetting 11 September. We
will remember every rescuer who died in honour. We
will remember every family that lives in grief. We will
remember the fire and ash, the last phone calls, the
funerals of the children.
And the people of my country will remember
those who have plotted against us. We are learning
their names. We are coming to know their faces. There
is no corner of the Earth distant or dark enough to
protect them. However long it takes, their hour of
justice will come.
Every nation has a stake in this cause. As we
meet, the terrorists are planning more murder —
perhaps in my country, or perhaps, fellow members, in
yours. They kill because they aspire to dominate. They
seek to overthrow Governments and to destabilize
entire regions. Last week, anticipating this meeting of
the General Assembly, they denounced the United
Nations; they called our Secretary-General a criminal
and they condemned all Arab nations here as traitors to
Islam. Few countries meet their exacting standards of
brutality and oppression. Every other country is a
potential target.
And all the world faces the most horrifying
prospect of all: those same terrorists are searching for
weapons of mass destruction, the tools to turn their
hatred into holocaust. They can be expected to use
chemical, biological and nuclear weapons the moment
they are capable of doing so. No hint of conscience
would prevent it. That threat cannot be ignored; that
threat cannot be appeased. Civilization itself — the
civilization we share — is threatened. History will
record our response and will judge or justify every
nation in this Hall.
The civilized world is now responding. We act to
defend ourselves and to deliver our children from a
future of fear. We choose the dignity of life over a
culture of death. We choose lawful change and civil
disagreement over coercion, subversion and chaos.
Those commitments — hope and order, law and life —
unite people across cultures and continents. Upon those
commitments depend all peace and progress. For those
commitments, we are determined to fight.
The United Nations has risen to this
responsibility: on 12 September, these buildings
opened for emergency meetings of the General
Assembly and of the Security Council. Before the sun
had set, these attacks on the world stood condemned by
the world, and I want to thank you, fellow members,
for that strong and principled stand.
I also thank the Arab and Islamic countries that
have condemned terrorist murder. Many of you have
seen the destruction of terror in your own lands. The
terrorists are increasingly isolated by their own hatred
and extremism. They cannot hide behind Islam. The
authors of mass murder and their allies have no place
in any culture, and no home in any faith.
The conspiracies of terror are being answered by
an expanding global coalition. Not every nation will be
part of every action against the enemy. But every
nation in our coalition has duties. Those duties can be
demanding, as we in America are learning. We have
already made adjustments in our laws and in our daily
lives. We are taking new measures to investigate terror
and to protect against threats.
The leaders of all nations must now carefully
consider their responsibilities and their future. Terrorist
groups such as Al Qaeda depend upon the aid or
indifference of Governments. They need the support of
a financial infrastructure and safe havens to train and
plan and hide.
Some nations want to play their part in the fight
against terror but tell us they lack the means to enforce
their laws and control their borders. We stand ready to
help.
Some Governments still turn a blind eye to the
terrorists, hoping the threat will pass them by. They are
mistaken.
And some Governments, while pledging to
uphold the principles of the United Nations, have cast
their lot with the terrorists. They support them and
harbour them. And they will find that their welcomed
guests are parasites that will weaken them and
eventually consume them. For every regime that
sponsors terror there is a price to be paid, and it will be
paid. The allies of terror are equally guilty of murder
and equally accountable to justice.
The Taliban are now learning that lesson. That
regime and the terrorists who support it are now
virtually indistinguishable. Together they promote
9

terror abroad and impose a reign of terror on the
Afghan people. Women are executed in Kabul’s soccer
stadium. They can be beaten for wearing socks that are
too thin. Men are jailed for missing prayer meetings.
The United States, supported by many nations, is
bringing justice to the terrorists in Afghanistan. We are
making progress against military targets — and that is
our objective. Unlike the enemy, we seek to minimize,
not maximize, the loss of innocent life. I am proud of
the honourable conduct of the American military. And
my country grieves for all the suffering the Taliban
have brought upon Afghanistan, including the terrible
burden of war.
The Afghan people do not deserve their present
rulers. Years of Taliban misrule have brought nothing
but misery and starvation. Even before this current
crisis, 4 million Afghans depended on food from the
United States and other nations, and millions of
Afghans were refugees from Taliban oppression.
I make this promise to all the victims of that
regime: the Taliban’s days of harbouring terrorists, and
dealing in heroin, and brutalizing women are drawing
to a close. When that regime is gone, the people of
Afghanistan will say, with the rest of the world, good
riddance.
I can promise, too, that America will join the
world in helping the people of Afghanistan rebuild
their country.
Many nations, including mine, are sending food
and medicine to help Afghans through the winter.
America has airdropped over 1.3 million packages of
rations in Afghanistan. Just this week, we airlifted
20,000 blankets and over 200 tons of provisions into
the region. We continue to provide humanitarian aid,
even while the Taliban try to steal the food we send.
More help, eventually, will be needed. The
United States will work closely with the United
Nations and development banks to reconstruct
Afghanistan after hostilities there have ceased and the
Taliban are no longer in control. And the United States
will work with the United Nations to support a post-
Taliban Government that represents all of the Afghan
people.
In this war of terror, each of us must answer for
what we have done or what we have left undone. After
tragedy, there is a time for sympathy and condolence.
My country has been very grateful for both.
The memorials and vigils around the world will
not be forgotten. But the time for sympathy has now
passed. The time for action has now arrived.
The most basic obligations in this new conflict
have already been defined by the United Nations. On
28 September, the Security Council adopted resolution
1373 (2001). Its requirements are clear: every
United Nations Member has a responsibility to crack
down on terrorist financing. We must pass all necessary
laws in our own countries to allow the confiscation of
terrorist assets. We must apply those laws to every
financial institution in every nation.
We have a responsibility to share intelligence and
coordinate the efforts of law enforcement. If you know
something, tell us. If we know something, we will tell
you. And when we find the terrorists, we must work
together to bring them to justice.
We have a responsibility to deny any sanctuary,
safe haven, or transit to terrorists. Every known
terrorist camp must be shut down, its operators
apprehended, and evidence of their arrest presented to
the United Nations.
We have a responsibility to deny weapons to
terrorists — and to actively prevent private citizens
from providing them.
These obligations are urgent, and they are binding
on every nation with a place in this Hall. Many
Governments are taking these obligations seriously,
and my country appreciates it. Yet even beyond
resolution 1373 (2001), more is required — and more
is expected — of our coalition against terror. We are
asking for a comprehensive commitment to this fight.
We must unite in opposing all terrorists, not just
some of them. In this world, there are good causes and
bad causes, and we may disagree on where that line is
drawn. Yet there is no such thing as a good terrorist.
No national aspiration, no remembered wrong, can ever
justify the deliberate murder of the innocent. Any
Government that rejects this principle — trying to pick
and choose its terrorist friends — will know the
consequences.
We must speak the truth about terror. Let us never
tolerate outrageous conspiracy theories concerning the
attacks of 11 September — malicious lies that attempt
to shift the blame away from the terrorists themselves,
away from the guilty. To inflame ethnic hatred is to
advance the cause of terror.
10

The war against terror must not serve as an
excuse to persecute ethnic and religious minorities in
any country. Innocent people must be allowed to live
their own lives, by their own customs, under their own
religion. And every nation must have avenues for the
peaceful expression of opinion and dissent. When these
avenues are closed, the temptation to speak through
violence grows.
We must press on with our agenda for peace and
prosperity in every land. My country is pledged to
encouraging development and expanding trade. My
country is pledged to investing in education and
combating AIDS and other infectious diseases around
the world. Following 11 September, these pledges are
even more important. In our struggle against hateful
groups that exploit poverty and despair, we must offer
an alternative of opportunity and hope.
The American Government also stands by its
commitment to a just peace in the Middle East. We are
working towards a day when two States — Israel and
Palestine — live peacefully together, within secure and
recognized borders, as called for by the Security
Council resolutions. We will do all in our power to
bring both parties back into negotiations. But peace
will come only when all have sworn off — forever —
incitement, violence and terror.
Finally, this struggle is a defining moment for the
United Nations itself — and the world needs its
principled leadership. It undermines the credibility of
this great institution, for example, when the
Commission on Human Rights offers seats to some of
the world’s most persistent violators of human rights.
The United Nations depends, above all, on its moral
authority — and that authority must be preserved.
The steps I have described will not be easy. For
all nations, they will require effort. For some nations,
they will require great courage. Yet the cost of inaction
is far greater. The only alternative to victory is a
nightmare world where every city is a potential killing
field.
As I told the American people, freedom and fear
are at war. We face enemies that hate not our policies,
but our existence — the tolerance of openness and the
creative culture that define us. But the outcome of this
conflict is certain.
There is a current in history, and it runs towards
freedom. Our enemies resent it and dismiss it, but the
dreams of mankind are defined by liberty — the natural
right to create, and build, and worship, and live in
dignity. When men and women are released from
oppression and isolation, they find fulfilment and hope,
and they leave poverty by the millions. These
aspirations are lifting up the peoples of Europe, Asia,
Africa and the Americas, and they can lift up all of the
Islamic world. We stand for the permanent hopes of
humanity, and those hopes will not be denied.
We are confident, too, that history has an author,
who fills time and eternity with his purpose. We know
that evil is real, but good will prevail against it. This is
the teaching of many faiths. And in that assurance, we
gain strength for a long journey.
It is our task — the task of this generation — to
provide the response to aggression and terror. We have
no other choice, because there is no other peace. We
did not ask for this mission, yet there is honour in
history’s call. We have a chance to write the story of
our times — a story of courage defeating cruelty, and
light overcoming darkness. This calling is worthy of
any life, and worthy of every nation. So let us go
forward — confident, determined and unafraid.



"
56,2001,GBR,"﻿Please allow me
warmly to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of
the presidency of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly.
This day, 11 November, is the anniversary of the
Armistice which ended the slaughter of the First World
War and is a day of remembrance here in the United
States, in the United Kingdom and across much of the
world. It is a day when all of us remember the sacrifice
of those who, over the last century, gave their lives that
others might live in freedom.
For our parents and grandparents, the end of the
Second World War stood as a turning point, a moment
to establish a new world order. Their vision was
inscribed at the very beginning of the Charter of the
United Nations:
“We the peoples of the United Nations,
determined to save succeeding generations from
the scourge of war”.
With these words, they founded the international
community.
For some of us, the subsequent half-century has
been the most peaceful era of our history. Yet we know
that no one’s freedom can be secure while others suffer.
On this Remembrance Day, we remember
something else — the thousands who died just two
months ago, on 11 September. A third of the nations
represented here in the General Assembly lost citizens
at the World Trade Center. But just as our predecessors
saw hope in the midst of despair, so we now face the
task of building a new and better world.
It is fitting that it was here at the United Nations,
on 12 September, that the world began to fight back
against the terrorist threat. We showed our joint
resolve, in the Security Council and in the General
Assembly, when we adopted resolutions demanding
that terrorists and those who harbour them be held to
account for their evil actions.
I applaud Security Council resolution 1373
(2001), which established the Counter-terrorism
Committee and which requires all Member States to
respond to the global terrorist threat.
21

We do surely have to take every effective
measure against international terrorist networks, whose
malign influence is felt in every part of the globe, not
least by adopting a comprehensive convention on
terrorism and the draft Nuclear Terrorism Convention.
We also have to confront an unpalatable truth:
that we still face a real and immediate danger. The
murderous groups who plotted the terrible events of 11
September could strike again at any time. Thus our first
duty, to our citizens and to each other, is to defend
ourselves against that threat.
When the nations of the world agreed the United
Nations Charter, they recognized the right of self-
defence in Article 51. It is in exercise of this right that
the military coalition is now engaged in action against
Al Qaeda and the Taliban regime which harbours them.
Taking military action is always a tough decision.
But here it truly was unavoidable, and we all owe a
debt of gratitude to President Bush for the steadfast and
careful manner in which the United States proceeded.
But in defending the world from terror, we have
to do our utmost to spare innocent Afghan people
further suffering. For decades, the Afghans have seen
their country exploited by outside powers and riven by
conflict. In five years, their society has been
systematically destroyed by one of the most brutal
regimes the world has ever known.
But at last today, the international community is
united in its efforts to feed and shelter the millions of
refugees through this harsh winter, and it is determined
to help build a new Afghanistan.
For the first time in decades, there is consensus in
the Security Council as a whole, and among
Afghanistan’s neighbours, that there should be a broad-
based government in Kabul, reflecting Afghanistan’s
rich ethnic diversity, and that the future of Afghanistan
must be put into the hands of the Afghan people. There
must be no more Great Games with Afghan people as
the pawns, and no more regional rivalries, with Afghan
people as the victims.
We know that the one institution in the world
which can deliver this better future is here now: the
United Nations. We should all give Ambassador
Brahimi every support in planning a future that leads to
Afghanistan retaking its place as a fully fledged
member of the international community, able to protect
and promote the interests of all of its people.
That nations have come so closely together to
fight terrorism shows how the world is changing.
However, we have to build a deeper and wider
consensus to tackle the other great issues which we
face. It is not just the Afghan people who have been
excluded from the values on which the United Nations
was founded.
Conflict, poverty, discrimination and injustice
still blight the lives of millions in every part of the
globe. Individuals’ rights, especially women’s rights,
are ignored with impunity, and then the very structure
of communities collapses. Where this happens, where
societies disintegrate or States fail, we put at risk the
basis of global society itself.
If 11 September teaches us anything, it is surely
this: that if we ignore our moral responsibilities to each
other, we will be forced later to face painful
consequences.
Nowhere is the need for action now more obvious
than in Africa. Yes, there has been some progress there.
International work on the ground to resolve conflict has
brought hope to Sierra Leone and to the Great Lakes
region. Responsible Governments working across the
continent in partnership with effective international
donors have succeeded in reducing poverty. But we
should not delude ourselves about the scale of the task
that remains in Africa. In sub-Saharan Africa average
income today is much lower than it was 30 years ago.
The New Partnership for African Development
therefore requires the support of the whole community
of nations. Africa deserves the same opportunities that
we in the West take for granted. We in the West must
acknowledge that while removing barriers to global
trade and to finance, we have not always dismantled
barriers to dignity and equality. In theory, global free
trade should have created the conditions for every
economy to exploit its comparative advantage in the
world marketplace. In practice, protectionist barriers
still survive, especially against trade in agriculture,
damaging Africa’s interests today, and all our interests
tomorrow.
As we meet here in New York, our colleagues at
the World Trade Organization meeting in Doha have
the opportunity to begin to put these injustices right.
Launching a new trade round would be the clearest
possible signal of the world’s determination to spread
the benefits of wealth and of prosperity more fairly.
22

Our predecessors gave us the United Nations. In
the succeeding years, it developed expertise in
peacekeeping, in conflict prevention, in human rights
and in reconstruction, to consolidate the gains of 1945.
My message today is that our generation faces as
daunting a task, but a different one. That task is to
defeat international terrorism. But to do that we have to
combine the agenda of 10 September with the agenda
of 11 September, as the Secretary-General emphasized
in his powerful speech yesterday. And we must take not
only military action, but also diplomatic action to
reduce tensions that terrorists exploit.
Nowhere are those tensions greater than in the
Middle East. The path to a settlement there is plain. It
has to be based on a political process that implements
United Nations resolutions. It must deliver security for
Israel within recognized borders while at the same time
creating a viable Palestinian State. We should give the
parties every help to reach a settlement. But our efforts
will be wasted unless the parties themselves show the
political will to bring violence to a halt, and the
political courage to make a deal.
We have seen, in the most graphic and brutal way
possible, that chaos in one part of the world can
undermine security in all parts of the world. Against
that chaos we must set our vision of peaceful
cooperation among stable nations. Achieving that
vision has now taken on a new urgency. Indeed, we are
at a moment of strategic opportunity, which comes no
more than once to any generation. We owe it to those
who founded the international community to seize this
moment. Most of all, we owe it to those who will come
after us.
Today we remember with sorrow the sacrifices
that earlier generations made. We remember with pride
the brave decisions that they took to build a better
world for us, and we salute the reconciliation and
recovery that followed. My hope is that our children
and our grandchildren will look back on this period
with no less pride, and that future generations will be
able to say that we here faced up to a great evil; we did
not duck the decisions we had to take; we established
peace in Afghanistan, constructive coexistence in the
Middle East and sustained development in Africa. We
made the necessary endeavour in the finest tradition of
the United Nations.
The United Nations stands for everything the
terrorist seeks to destroy. My hope is that our
successors will look back on this era and say that we
saved succeeding generations from the scourge of
terrorism as well as from the scourge of war.





"
56,2001,ESP,"﻿First of
all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on
his election as President of this fifty-sixth session of
the General Assembly of the United Nations. Likewise,
I would like to congratulate the Organization itself and
its Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on having been
awarded this year's Nobel Peace Prize. Mr. Annan's
re-election guarantees the continuous leadership of
someone who has enormously contributed to
strengthening the prestige of the United Nations and its
role in the world.
I also wish to emphasize my full support for the
statement made in this Hall by the Minister for Foreign
32

Affairs of Belgium on behalf of the presidency of the
European Union.
The horror of the terrorist attacks of 11
September shocked the world. We were all attacked on
that day  all of us who defend freedom, tolerance and
respect for the dignity of human beings. Spain knows
well the cruelty of terrorism and the grief that it can
cause. Therefore, Spain, its Government and its
citizens are in complete solidarity with the American
people, the families of the victims and this city of New
York, which is also our city  the city of the United
Nations.
Once again, I wish to express my solidarity and
my condolences to the families of the victims of
today's tragedy.
After 11 September, we cannot continue acting in
the same way. There has been change in the political
paradigm  the coordinates that have guided us until
now. The paradigm has changed, and now the political
culture must also change. Terrorism cannot continue to
be regarded as an inevitable evil for our peoples, but
rather as a mortal enemy of them all. There can be
neither excuses nor pretexts: this is the time to
demonstrate the political will of each and every one of
us to take effective measures for international
cooperation against terrorism  measures which Spain
has been promoting for years  to take a qualitative
leap forward.
Since 11 September, an important international
consensus has emerged on the need to confront
terrorism. This shows that terrorism has nothing to do
with the differences between North and South or East
and West, much less with a supposed conflict between
civilizations. Many Islamic countries are among its
main victims. It does have to do, however, with the
difference between those who commit these kinds of
acts or give them their support, and those who consider
them to be atrocities and violations of the most
elementary principles of human coexistence, which are
common to all the great civilizations.
The United Nations has risen to the occasion. Its
action has been quick and effective, demonstrating that
the Organization is indispensable at the dawning of the
new millennium. Resolution 1368 (2001) made it
possible for a coalition of wills, of which Spain is a
part, to emerge in order to respond to the attacks.
Resolution 1373 (2001) expresses the determination of
the international community to maintain concerted
action for as long as necessary against terrorism:
against terrorism without adjectives, against the
terrorists themselves, and also against those who lend
them any type of support, active or passive.
Progress has also been made in the negotiation of
a general convention against international terrorism,
overcoming some of the obstacles that had blocked the
negotiations for years. Now that we are close to
reaching an agreement, we must make an effort to
eliminate the problems that are still pending. The goal
must be to draw up an operative and effective
instrument against terrorism that cannot be paralysed
by interminable discussions of a political rather than a
legal nature. The subject is of pivotal importance, and
the very credibility of the United Nations is at stake.
We have a historical opportunity before us; it would be
a shame if we were to squander it.
To their cynicism and disdain for elementary
human values, terrorists often add a shameless
opportunism in order to manipulate particular
situations to their advantage. These situations
undoubtedly require a solution on account of their
intrinsic nature, on their own merits, without any
relation to terrorist claims. We must all work together
to find that solution.
These situations involve structural problems such
as poverty and the marginalization in which many
millions of people live all over the world. They also
have to do with regional conflicts, such as that in the
Middle East, where there is an urgent need to stop the
blind cycle of violence and return to the negotiating
table. If the political will exists, negotiations are
possible. Madrid, Oslo and the advances made at Camp
David and Taba prove this. There is no alternative to
the peace process and, at the end of the road, the State
of Israel and the Palestinian State will coexist
peacefully within secure borders.
Terrorist attacks against innocent civilians cause
alarm among our peoples, but they are not the only
cause for uncertainty at the beginning of the new
millennium.
When the political and ideological confrontations
that had defined the second half of the twentieth
century were largely overcome, other types of conflicts
emerged with force. These tend to be not international,
but rather internal, conflicts and are therefore difficult
to address with the instruments of traditional
33

diplomacy. Some of them have given rise to serious
humanitarian crises that have afflicted our peoples.
At a time when we have decoded the human
genome and the advances of biotechnology pose new
dilemmas, millions of people continue to live in
conditions of extreme poverty, with less than a dollar
per day to cover all their needs.
As we witness the interconnection of economies
worldwide and can send information instantly to any
corner of the Earth, we see how globalization
distributes its benefits unequally, making more visible
and intolerable the breach between rich and poor, the
powerful and the weak, the haves and the have-nots.
These situations give rise to uncertainty, but they
also give rise to a demand for solutions. Our peoples
turn to us  Governments and international
organizations  and they ask us to act, especially the
United Nations. Its global vision, its universal
composition and its vocation to defend the interests of
all humanity give it a unique legitimacy in the eyes of
our citizens.
In order not to disappoint these expectations, the
United Nations must face the challenge of its
modernization, following the path charted by the
Millennium Summit.
My country has also undergone a significant
process of modernization in recent years, which has
enabled it to become fully incorporated into
international life. Spain has been able to break away
from the inertia of the past and seek new solutions to
its new problems. It has done so without renouncing its
identity as a bridge between different cultures and
regions of the world. That is the perspective from
which my country backs the process of reform and
modernization. It will continue to do so from the
presidency of the European Union, which it will hold
during the first half of next year.
The phenomenon of globalization is responsible
for much of the current uncertainty facing the
processes of change. The United Nations, which thinks
globally, is the natural forum for managing
globalization.
In addition to the fight against terrorism, effective
instruments must be developed to combat drugs and
transnational organized crime. This year, progress must
be made in the preparation of a convention against
corruption.
The International Criminal Court is one of the
key instruments of international relations that we will
need in the new millennium. Spain has been involved
from the start in the fight against the culture of
impunity with regard to the most heinous crimes. It
now seems more necessary than ever for the Court to
start to act. The different legal systems of the world
must be duly represented in the court, because
globalization does not mean homogenization. No
country must be marginalized from this historic
process; all must be able to contribute to the Court
their own views regarding international criminal
justice.
Arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation
require greater attention from the international
community. Progress in the destruction and prohibition
of anti-personnel mines as a result of the Ottawa
Convention and the results of the Programme of Action
of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects are
encouraging.
The need to protect the environment is real, and
the solutions cannot be postponed. The Kyoto Protocol
offers some answers to this problem. Those who do not
accept Kyoto will have to propose a better solution. In
the meantime, its ratification will be the only practical
measure taken in this field. That is why we welcome
the agreement reached in Marrakech, which we believe
to be a step in the right direction.
New conflicts require new solutions. We must
deal with all the stages of a particular conflict through
a comprehensive approach that includes efforts to
prevent the causes, to keep the peace when crisis
erupts, to consolidate that peace and, afterwards, to
begin economic and institutional reconstruction. This
idea has inspired the efforts being made by my country,
in cooperation with the Russian Federation, in the
demining project in southern Lebanon. It also
motivates efforts, in which Spain is an active
participant, to strengthen African capabilities to
prevent and settle conflicts. For that reason, Spain was
very pleased to welcome the birth of the African Union
at the Lusaka Summit, as well as the New African
Initiative that was adopted there.
This approach must also be applied to
international action in support of the Afghan people,
whose situation is particularly dire. We must urgently
help them to meet their basic humanitarian needs,
34

especially given the approach of winter. This
international action, to which Spain is contributing,
must also include clear support for the economic and
institutional reconstruction of the country. The future
of Afghanistan is something that only the Afghan
people can decide. Nevertheless, the international
community must support them so that they can
establish a stable Government and maintain normal
relations with their neighbours and the rest of the
world. In this task, the United Nations must play a
fundamental role.
The new diplomatic instruments that are required
must accord special attention to humanitarian affairs.
The need to protect the rights of refugees and internally
displaced persons, access to humanitarian assistance
for affected populations and the situation of children in
armed conflicts, in addition to the security problem of
United Nations and associated personnel  all these
issues require effective solutions. If some States fail to
meet their responsibilities in this area, it will be
necessary to draw attention to their attitude repeatedly,
until it changes.
Peacekeeping is an essential instrument in this
comprehensive approach to dealing with conflict. The
General Assembly must take concrete steps to
implement the recommendations of the Brahimi report
on peacekeeping operations by increasing the size of
the Department of Peacekeeping Operations in the
Secretariat, improving the participation of the troop-
contributing countries in the decision-making process
and strengthening civil police operations, in which
Spain has played an active role.
None of this will be enough if peacekeeping
operations do not receive clear and adequate mandates,
backed with the firm political support of the Security
Council. If mandates are not clear and adequate, it will
not be possible to send United Nations units to places
in which they may have to use force. No country is
prepared to risk the lives of its soldiers to defend
empty words.
This brings us to the need to conclude the process
of reforming the Security Council. We need a more
representative, democratic, effective and transparent
Security Council. Spain, which is a candidate for
non-permanent membership of the Security Council in
the elections to be held during the fifty-seventh session
of the General Assembly, will strive, if elected, to
increase the quantity and improve the quality of the
consultations with non-member States, especially with
those most affected by the issues being debated by the
Council.
Human rights and fundamental freedoms  civil
and political, as well as economic and social  are the
birthright of all humanity and not just of a particular
group of States. Their violation today provokes
condemnation in a way that it did not in the past. We
must continue to strengthen such points of agreement,
incorporating the concerns of all.
It is therefore important that the Durban
Conference was able to adopt a final document. Spain,
like the rest of the European Union, upheld to the end
its commitment to the objectives of the Conference. We
must take advantage of the agreement reached at
Durban to continue to make progress in this field.
Along the same lines, my country will organize, in the
next few days in Madrid, in cooperation with the Office
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights, an international consultative conference on
student education in relation to freedom of religion or
beliefs, tolerance and non-discrimination.
I cannot fail to refer to the question of Gibraltar.
As has already been communicated to the Secretary-
General, the United Kingdom and Spain agreed, on 26
July in London, to relaunch their talks within the
framework of the Brussels Declaration, issuing to this
end a communiquÈ in which they underlined their
political will to overcome all of their differences over
Gibraltar and to conclude these talks promptly and
successfully for the benefit of all the parties involved.
Furthermore, they invited the Chief Minister of
Gibraltar to participate in ministerial meetings within
the framework of this process.
The problem of development is central to the
activities of the Organization. The Millennium
Declaration constitutes the basic framework for these
activities and must be implemented in its entirety. At
this session, the General Assembly must set in motion
an effective monitoring mechanism for the Declaration.
Spain is also working to define new fields for
development cooperation. For example, Spain is a
pioneer in the development of microcredits, which
constitute a particularly suitable instrument for the
development of the less advanced countries. This year,
Spain organized in Las Palmas a high-level meeting on
tourism and development in less developed countries
with a view to placing its extensive experience in this
35

field at the service of tourism development in such
countries, some of which, such as the small island
States, have comparative advantages in this field from
which they could benefit.
Next April, Spain will also organize the Second
World Assembly on Ageing, thus responding to the
need to pay special attention to vulnerable
populations  those most likely to suffer the highest
rates of poverty. The eradication of poverty is the
primary objective of both the Millennium Declaration
and Spain's policy for cooperation in development.
If there is one group of people who are vulnerable
by definition, it is people who are ill. The special
session of General Assembly on AIDS and other
infectious diseases highlighted the urgency of halting
their spread. Spain will make a major contribution to
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria, which has been created for this purpose.
The United Nations will not be able to
accomplish all of these tasks if it does not have the
necessary resources to do so. The budget for the
coming two-year period will be discussed during this
Assembly's session. The effort to impose budgetary
discipline must continue, but rigid positions that
prevent the Organization from facing up to its
responsibilities must be avoided.
Evading responsibility is something that the
United Nations cannot afford to do, especially today.
Unique legitimacy imposes a unique responsibility. The
United Nations will be judged in this new millennium
by its effectiveness in addressing the new problems
confronting it, by its ability to transform uncertainties
into solutions, insecurity into confidence and fear into
hope.
In conclusion, I would like to make one further
comment. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco
referred to the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla and
to other Spanish territories. In the context of the
relations of friendship and good-neighbourliness that
exist between Spain and Morocco, I wish to stress that
the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, and the adjacent
islands, are an integral part of the territory of Spain and
that their citizens are represented in the Spanish
parliament in the same capacity and under the same
terms as the rest of their compatriots.




"
56,2001,COG,"﻿The crash
of American Airlines flight 587 two days ago has once
again cast into mourning the city of New York, which
has already suffered so much. On behalf of the
delegation of the Congo, I offer my most sincere
condolences to the bereaved families.
I wish at the outset to congratulate you sincerely,
Sir, on your outstanding election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. The
trust that has been placed in you reflects the
14

international community’s recognition of your qualities
as an experienced diplomat and is a tribute to your
country, the Republic of Korea, for the decisive role it
plays in maintaining peace and security throughout the
world. You may rest assured of the full cooperation of
the delegation of the Congo.
I express our gratitude to your predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the competence and deftness
with which he carried out his task.
I also take this opportunity once again to offer
our sincere congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi
Annan on his brilliant re-election and on his reception
of the Nobel Peace Prize, which is a crown on his
personal contribution and on that of our Organization.
We still have in our mind’s eye the terrifying and
unbearable images of the attacks perpetrated against
the United States on 11 September —acts of pure
barbarity, blind terrorism that we condemn absolutely,
as we do all other forms of violence, which must be
curbed and eradicated. In keeping with the commitment
undertaken at the Millennium Summit, we must be
especially vigilant and determined in the fight against
that evil, which has no place in the world today. The
Congo fully endorses all the relevant United Nations
resolutions aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of
the response of the international community to
terrorism, in particular Security Council resolutions
1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001).
The African continent, which has suffered for
many years from violence that has hampered its
development and integration into the world of today,
has clearly condemned such acts, which can lead only
to further destitution and poverty. That is why, at a
time when it is launching new initiatives to help it to
emerge from crisis and promote development, Africa is
dressing its wounds and appealing for various forms of
local, regional and international mediation. These
initiatives have already borne fruit.
With regard to the conflict in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, which is of particular concern
to my country, we welcome the progress that has been
accomplished in implementing the Lusaka Agreement,
which is enabling the United Nations Organization
Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(MONUC) to move on to phase III of its deployment.
In this context, we welcome the Security Council
meeting with the Political Committee of the Lusaka
Agreement. We invite all the parties to continue to
demonstrate their goodwill in carrying out the
commitments they have undertaken. We have great
hopes for the inter-Congolese dialogue, which is
scheduled to take place in South Africa.
After years of war and illegal exploitation of its
wealth, that brotherly country needs to return to peace,
national unity and political stability and to fully
recover its sovereignty so that it can achieve the
progress promised by its enormous potential. My
country, for its part, has always maintained good-
neighbourly relations with the other side of the Congo
River, and we will continue to contribute in every way
we can to ensure the peace and normalization that are
so greatly desired.
We would like to take this opportunity to thank
Mr. Kofi Annan and, through him, his Special
Representative, Mr. Namanga Ngongi, for the action
that has been carried out within the framework of
MONUC.
As for Burundi, we would like to pay tribute to
President Nelson Mandela for his mediation, which has
led to the formation of a government of national unity,
to which we wish every success. This process, which
should contribute to a return to lasting peace and
stability for that country, deserves the full support of
the international community.
In Angola, the consistent resort to terrorism and
other acts of sabotage by UNITA, in disregard of the
relevant Security Council resolutions, should lead us to
strengthen the sanctions against that organization,
which is responsible for the continuation of war in the
country. The Congo reaffirms its solidarity with the
people and the Government of Angola, who are sparing
no effort to restore peace and rebuild their country. The
international community must provide all necessary
assistance to Angola.
Given the continuing violence in the Middle East,
a return to the Oslo accords is urgently required if the
current deadlock is to be broken. We appeal to the
parties in conflict to show a willingness to move
forward so as to re-establish a dialogue, which remains
the only way to restore lasting peace in an area of the
world that has been troubled for far too long. We
therefore welcome the constructive proposals made by
the President of the United States of America, His
Excellency George W. Bush, on the coexistence of two
States, Israel and Palestine, within secure and
15

recognized borders, as required by Security Council
resolutions.
Situations such as these are often and almost
systematically accompanied by the massive
displacement of populations, which causes
destabilization in neighbouring countries and worsens
domestic problems. Such is the case in my country,
which is currently hosting more than 200,000 refugees
mainly from the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Angola, Rwanda and, more recently, the Central
African Republic. The situation is a great cause for
concern in a country that is only just emerging from
war itself and is thus confronted by many other
challenges. Given the seriousness of this situation, I
would like once again to repeat the appeal of my
Government for adequate assistance.
After the signing, at the end of 1999, of
agreements on the cessation of hostilities, the priority
tasks set out by President Denis Sassou Nguesso were
national reconciliation and relaunching the democratic
process, with a view to ensuring the reconstruction and
development of the Congo. Today, almost all of these
objectives are in the process of being achieved.
At the political level, we organized in
Brazzaville, from 14 March to 17 April 2001, a
national dialogue from which no one was barred, under
the auspices of an international mediator, His
Excellency El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of the
Gabonese Republic, to whom we would like once again
to express our deep gratitude. That dialogue has been
sanctioned by the signing of the convention for peace
and reconstruction in the Congo, as well as by the
adoption of a preliminary draft of the constitution. This
preliminary draft was approved by the National
Transitional Council — our transitional parliament —
on 2 September, and it will be submitted to a
referendum before the end of this year. In preparation
for the constitutional referendum and the general
elections, an administrative census has just been
carried out so as to draw up electoral lists.
I would also like to mention the efforts being
made by the Government within the context of
strengthening the consolidation of peace. These
include, in particular, the demobilization of over
25,000 militia members; the collection of 10,817
weapons and rounds of ammunition, of which 6,484
have already been destroyed, with the technical support
of the International Organization for Migration;
assistance for the reintegration of 6,844 former militia
members, with the United Nations helping with more
than 2,190 small-scale projects; and the large-scale
return of displaced persons and refugees to their
normal domicile.
Furthermore, the establishment of a high
commission responsible for reintegrating former
combatants, a Committee for the follow-up of the
convention on peace and reconstruction in the Congo,
and a national committee to eradicate poverty all form
part of this momentum for the consolidation of peace.
Our work will long continue to reflect the painful
background against which it is taking place — the
terrorist attacks. We have committed ourselves —
rightly, unanimously and resolutely — to fighting this
scourge. But this means that we must eradicate
anything that might be used as a pretext for acts of
blind destruction. To decrease tension throughout the
world is to deal with situations that can foster
terrorism. But we should remember that an apparently
local crisis can have repercussions very far away —
sometimes even at the global level. In this context,
globalization must not be seen solely in economic and
commercial terms. In reality, we are talking about the
daily existence of individuals, peoples and nations,
closely linked because of the rupture of borders.
The eleventh of September just gave us a painful
reminder that the world is one in its suffering, meaning
that we must also remain as one as we seek better
times. That is why we must reduce, as quickly as
possible, the gulf that separates the poorest among us
from the wealthiest.
The socio-economic tensions we see throughout
the world are also the result of extreme poverty in
developing countries. Over 1 billion men and women
are victims of malnutrition and do not even have access
to drinking water or minimal health services. Unless
we accelerate growth, poverty will continue to worsen.
We must all therefore mobilize generally in order to
urgently implement the strategies we ourselves have
adopted here, especially those adopted during the
Millennium Summit.
We should welcome the recent United Nations
initiative to set up a Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS
and to respond to the desire of developing countries to
have access to new therapies at a lower cost.
16

With regard to the particular economic situation
in Africa, Congo expects that during this session the
international community will support the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development. As the
Assembly is aware, the New Partnership — which
harmonizes the concerns of the new African Union in
the areas of development and economic integration —
is the response that Africa unanimously intends to
present to the challenges of globalization.
It is also appropriate now to again look at the
essential instrument in that international struggle,
namely, the United Nations. The conferences and
special session organized by the United Nations this
year — on the least developed countries, AIDS, human
settlements, the illicit trade in light weapons in all its
aspects, racism and many other issues — once again
proves that our Organization remains a vital and
irreplaceable instrument at the service of humankind. It
is also in this framework that the fight against terrorism
must take place.
As we stated during the Millennium Summit last
year, we must, while relying on the United Nations,
work more resolutely and methodically to find
solutions to all those concerns. It is for this reason that
I would like, in conclusion, to reaffirm my country’s
commitment to the United Nations, which must remain
the preferred forum for international coordination and
dialogue among civilizations, for the maintenance of
international peace and security, for the peaceful
settlement of conflict, and for international economic
cooperation in the service of all.






"
56,2001,LKA,"﻿Every speaker
from this podium during the special debate on
terrorism, the debate on dialogue among civilizations
and our current general debate has said, suggested or
implied that 11 September has changed the world
irrevocably. Indeed it has. A democracy is an open
society. Movement is free. Speech is free. All the
citizens of a democratic society are free to lead their
lives in freedom, subject only to the rule of law. Fear
and the spirit of democratic freedom are two totally
opposite states of mind. Yet, today, fear stalks the
United States of America, where democracy has
flourished vigorously for so long, bringing prosperity
to its people and taking human achievement to
unimagined heights of excellence.
There can be no argument that terror in all its
manifestations must be fought relentlessly and
globally. Gone are the days when a country affected by
terror, as my country has been for two decades, can be
told by the international community, “We are sorry
about what is happening in your land, but there is
nothing we can do to help you because we have no
laws to combat terror.” When our Central Bank was
bombed and destroyed, when the Temple of the Sacred
Tooth Relic, one of the holiest shrines of Buddhism,
was bombed and saved from destruction only by a
miracle, when a commuter train carrying workers home
was attacked with explosives, when thousands of
people, including monks, women and children were
slaughtered, when Muslims were massacred in a
mosque while at prayer, when a President of Sri Lanka,
Ministers and Members of Parliament and many other
elected leaders were assassinated, let alone a Prime
Minister of India, when a suicide bomber at an election
rally attacked the incumbent President of Sri Lanka,
killing and wounding scores of innocent bystanders and
grievously wounding her in the right eye, the sight of
which was lost — all this and much more has happened
at the hands of a terrorist group in Sri Lanka — we
received merely sympathies, condolences, expressions
of shock and outrage, while the funding that fuels the
terrorism in my country went on apace in the great,
liberal democracies of the West. When half of the
aircraft in our national airline were damaged or
destroyed by those same terrorists on 24 July, we were
advised by some Governments to negotiate. We were
reminded that “violence begets violence”.
That approach has changed dramatically in recent
days, or so it seems, because terrorism has assailed the
national interests of many countries. Terrorism is no
longer the curse of the poor. Now, more than ever
before, when a terrorist attack takes place somewhere
in the world, “never send to know for whom the bell
tolls”, as John Donne said nearly four centuries ago,
for surely “it tolls for thee”.
The United Nations has focused sharply on
building consensus to fight terror. Two important
United Nations conventions were adopted with
admirable speed — the International Convention for
the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings and the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
24

Financing of Terrorism. Another important convention
is being considered at this session by the Ad Hoc
Committee on International Terrorism, which is chaired
by Sri Lanka. Since we have been so severely affected
by terrorism, it is only natural that we should play a
leading role in designing the legislation that the
international community should adopt and implement
to combat terrorism.
There is a particularly abhorrent brand of
terrorism that the world can never condone — that is,
the forcible conscription of young children for battle,
widely practiced by the terrorists of Sri Lanka and well
documented by Amnesty International, the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General for Children
and Armed Conflict. It would be a permanent blot on
humankind’s conscience if these poor children were to
be consigned, unnoticed and uncared for, to their
miserable fate.
While terrorism must continue to be fought,
relentlessly and by everyone everywhere, sooner rather
than later the international community will have to
focus its collective attention on the question of
analysing and diagnosing the causes of terrorism,
preventing and finally eliminating it before it becomes
a problem of such deadly dimensions that it threatens
the whole world. The causes of terrorism cannot be
ignored. To examine the roots of terrorism and the
culture in which it breeds in a systematic, objective,
well-informed manner is not, by any means, to yield to
terrorism. It is not a manifestation of weakness for the
international community to examine the root causes of
terrorism. It is axiomatic that a contented people do not
rise up to destroy the society in which they live. If the
world has become a village, surely we must take care
to ensure that the villagers living down one road in the
village are not given cause to become resentful and
angry at the opulence enjoyed by other villagers living
down another road, only a stone’s throw away.
Might I suggest, therefore, that this General
Assembly consider the convening of an international
group of eminent persons with the appropriate
backgrounds in all relevant fields, representative of all
regions of the world, appointed by the President of the
General Assembly, the President of the Security
Council and the Secretary-General, with the request
that the group report to the General Assembly, the
Security Council and the Secretary-General within an
appropriate time frame on terrorism and its prevention.
Thus, inescapably we will have to revisit and re-
address the old questions that have haunted the United
Nations ever since it was born — that is, the questions
of poverty, hunger, disease, ignorance and injustice.
These questions have been with us for a long time.
They have received answers which are, to a large
extent, no more than faint-hearted attempts to forge
solutions that look grand on paper but are incapable of
implementation due to the lack of funds and the lack of
political will.
The formulation of policy has always been far
easier than its implementation and, when we look to
the future through the ultimate prism — namely, the
funding available — we face once more the bitter truth
of which our colleagues from the developed world have
been warning us year after year: “the funding globally
available is far from promising”.
We in the developing world have also been
warning our colleagues for so long, when a developing
country is unable to generate a sufficient amount of
domestic capital, public or private, it is to international
capital that we, in the developing world, have to turn;
and, as international private capital is sensitive to the
rate and continuance of profitable return, it is only
official development assistance (ODA) that remains.
On 8 November, only a few days ago, at the
European Union’s (EU) Development Council in
Brussels, a common statement was delivered by the
five Ministers for Development Cooperation of
Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway and
Sweden. Their words convey far more effectively, and
with far greater authority, than my words could
possibly do, the thoughts of developing countries on
the question of development aid, and, therefore, I take
the liberty of quoting that common statement in its
entirety:
“In the Millennium Declaration, the
international community recognized the fight
against poverty as the greatest challenge to our
global governance system”.
“The events of 11 September have made it
even more crucial to deal with these problems.
We not only need a global coalition against
terrorism. We need a global coalition against
poverty as well.
“The Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, at the Conference on
25

the Least Developed Countries in May 2001,
remarked that only a few countries have lived up
to the goals of devoting 0.7 percent of their gross
national product (GNP) to official development
assistance (ODA), and that the least developed
countries suffer disproportionately as a result of
that.
“We need better and more effective
development assistance: policy coherence, lower
transaction costs by harmonization of procedures.
We need sharper focus on the importance of
strong institutions and sound economic and social
policy. But we cannot expect to reach our
common goal of halving extreme poverty by 2015
without increasing aid volume.”
I continue to quote from the common statement:
“There is no need for a new set of standards.
All United Nations members, with the exception
of the United States, have accepted a long
established standard volume of ODA for donor
countries: 0.7 percent of GNP. But the
international community is still a long way from
making this standard a reality.
“Although the EU has stressed the
importance of the 0.7 percent target in the
conclusions of the European Council in Göteborg,
the EU’s record is no exception: in 2000, member
States gave an average of only 0.33 per cent of
GNP in ODA. This is better than the OECD
average of 0.24 per cent, but it is still a long way
from the target.”
“In fact, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark
and Luxembourg are the only EU member States
that meet the ODA standard. Norway, a non-EU
member, is also part of this exclusive club.
Luxembourg, the newest member of this group,
has proved that it is possible to raise ODA to 0.7
per cent of GNP in a short period of time.
Together we make up the G-0.7.
“The G-7 is full of promises. If all the rich
countries would just implement what they have
committed themselves to, as the G-0.7 have done,
we would not encounter these financial
constraints. Having said that, we do realize that
ODA is not the only way forward. We also must
take into account fair distribution of resources,
debt relief, open markets, good governance and
the role of the private sector. A reform of the
Common Agricultural Policy is a great challenge
to the EU.
“We welcome new and innovative financing
options, but the main problem is that some
countries are not providing adequate ODA
resources. Obviously there is a lack of political
commitment in setting budget priorities. These
countries need to change their political priorities
in order to comply with their international
commitments.
“EU Declarations like the one made in
Göteborg do call for that much needed
compliance — that is to say, they call on us to
keep the promises we have already made — but
they do so only in general terms. We now need to
pick up the pace.
“We call on EU members to make a firm
commitment at the International Conference on
Finance for Development in Monterrey in 2002
and to formulate individual plans and timetables
in order to make concrete progress in reaching the
goal of 0.7 per cent of GNP to ODA.
“Today’s EU Development Council in
Brussels is a good opportunity to further
strengthen the relations in our global world. It
should send a long awaited signal that we are
serious about our commitments to developing
countries.”
I wish to place on record the high appreciation of
my Government to the Governments of Denmark,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway and Sweden for
those frank and refreshing observations.
We in the developing world will certainly look
with much expectation to the International Conference
on Financing for Development that will convene in
March next year. We cannot but hope that,
notwithstanding the continuing difference in positions,
a secure foundation for a partnership for the future will
be formed there, within which both the strong interests
of the developing world and the strong concerns of the
developed world can be adequately accommodated.
And I would think that undoubtedly the
developed world too will, after the events of 11
September, look to the future with a frame of mind
different from its frame of mind before that fateful
date. Development, stability and contentment for all
26

people are no longer charitable objectives. They are in
the self-interest of all.
Most certainly, neither we in the developing
world nor those in the developed world can allow
abject, desperate poverty, without any hope of a better
future, to become a fertile field for those who wish to
fan the flames of discord and hate and make it their
business to wreak death, destruction, terror and
mayhem.
Fifty-six years ago almost to this day, the
Constitution of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization was proclaimed in
words that have a prophetic resonance today:
“... since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in
the minds of men that the defences of peace must
be constructed;
“... ignorance of each other’s ways and lives has
been a common cause, throughout the history of
mankind, of that suspicion and mistrust between
the peoples of the world through which their
differences have all too often broken into war;
“... the great and terrible war which has now
ended was a war made possible by the denial of
the democratic principles of the dignity, equality
and mutual respect of men, and by the
propagation, in their place, through ignorance and
prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men
and races;
“... a peace based exclusively upon the political
and economic arrangements of governments
would not be a peace which could secure the
unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the
peoples of the world, and...the peace must
therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the
intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind.”
These are noble words of timeless quality. But
words, however noble, which remain untranslated into
deeds become shallow, tawdry, degraded.
All nations, all the peoples of the world, must
realize that we are slipping into a crisis of a kind we
have never encountered before. The spectres of fear,
doubt, uncertainty, mistrust and suspicion stalk the
world. The hour is late. The hour is grave.






"
56,2001,KGZ,"﻿Osmonakun IbraimovI
would like at the outset to join in all the
congratulations that have been extended to the
President on his election as President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. I would like to assure
him that our delegation is ready to cooperate fully with
him and also to wish him, on behalf of the Kyrgyz
delegation, success in carrying out his duties.
Our delegation would also like to take this
opportunity to congratulate the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, on his re-election to a second term of
office and also on his winning the Nobel Peace Prize,
together with the United Nations, this year. We
consider that this award was well deserved.
The work of this session is taking place at an
extremely complex time for the international
community. Today, from this lofty rostrum, on behalf
of the people of Kyrgyzstan, I convey our deepest
condolences to the people and the Government of the
United States in connection with the tragic events of 11
September this year, which claimed many victims.
Terrorism has laid down an extremely dangerous
challenge to all of civilized humanity, democracy and
freedom. In this context, the efforts of the international
community aimed at combating terrorism, first and
foremost within the framework of the United Nations,
are fully supported by Kyrgyzstan, and our
Government is taking all necessary measures to
implement Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001)
and 1373 (2001). From the very outset, we have
supported and will continue to support the activities of
the United States and other countries within the anti-
terrorist coalition, and consider the military operations
to be inevitable and justified actions.
Our position of principle with respect to terrorism
stems from Kyrgyzstan’s position at the epicentre of
the struggle against international terrorism and against
the illegal trafficking in drugs and weapons, which are
a threat to the stability and security not only of the
Central Asian region but of the entire civilized world.
Our country has for three years been defending itself
against incursions by terrorist bands that have resulted
in the deaths of entirely innocent people. If it had not
been for our firm determination to take a stand against
terrorism and keep a firm lock on our borders, then
serious destabilization of the entire region would have
been inevitable. We do not wish to exaggerate our role,
but it is we who have prevented the terrorists from
5

crossing our borders into other countries. I would also
like to note that Kyrgyzstan has also made its territory
available and the necessary transport vehicles for the
transit of international humanitarian assistance to
Afghanistan on the Osh-Ishkashim-Faizabad road.
A serious problem for us is that of refugees who
have come to the territory of our Republic from the
region of the conflict. Kyrgyzstan already hosts
approximately 2,000 Afghan refugees. Their numbers
could increase very rapidly. All of this is a very serious
problem, and finding a solution will require active
assistance from the relevant international
organizations.
Over the last few years we have all seen
Afghanistan become a sanctuary for various
international terrorist organizations. After the fall of
Kabul yesterday, the inter-Afghan conflict has entered
a completely new phase. Moreover, it is now more
urgent than ever to deal with the question of a mutually
acceptable solution to untie the Afghan knot.
Kyrgyzstan proceeds from a deep understanding of the
need for rapidly winding up the military confrontation
in Afghanistan, with the subsequent formation in that
long-suffering country of a broadly representative,
multi-ethnic Government, that, first and foremost,
meets the interests and aspirations of the Afghan
people.
In this connection, Kyrgyzstan welcomes
constructive ideas and proposals aimed at establishing
a long-awaited peace in Afghanistan. For our part, we
consistently express our readiness to cooperate with all
the countries involved in order to settle the Afghan
conflict. We consider that it is precisely the United
Nations, with its experience, capabilities and
institutional potential, that should play a key role in
bringing together the efforts of the international
community to combat terrorism. In this regard,
Kyrgyzstan proposes the creation of a special
committee of the United Nations to restore peace and
stability in Afghanistan, which could be a coordinating
body for all the practical measures to this end.
Today we would like to recall one of the well-
known initiatives of the President of Kyrgyzstan, Askar
Akayev, to hold a forum for dialogue on security
questions between the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Organization of
the Islamic Conference. It seems to us that there is now
an urgent need for such a dialogue between these two
authoritative organizations. In this connection,
Kyrgyzstan took the very important initiative to hold
on 13-14 December of this year, under the aegis of the
OSCE in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, an
international conference on enhancing security and
stability in Central Asia and strengthening
comprehensive efforts to counter terrorism. We are
now making active preparations, together with the
secretariat of the OSCE, for this important measure. In
our view, the participation of the United Nations in that
event would facilitate a consolidated solution for
working out joint approaches to combating terrorism.
This would be an important step in strengthening the
international community’s capacity to avert the threat
to security in Central Asia, including by expanding the
assistance to countries in that region in the face of the
growing threat. It is encouraging to note that many
States, including participants in the anti-terrorist
coalition, are showing serious interest in the Bishkek
international conference to combat terrorism.
Kyrgyzstan attaches great importance to
questions of sustainable development. In this regard,
my delegation greatly appreciates the decision of the
fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly to hold a
World Summit on Sustainable Development in
Johannesburg, South Africa. It is a pleasure to note that
Kyrgyzstan made a very significant contribution to the
preparation of the Rio + 10 summit on problems of
sustainable development, having organized, together
with the United Nations Secretariat, in Bishkek, a
regional round table. The results of the round table will
certainly be reflected in the key documents of the
World Summit in Johannesburg.
As we well know, the United Nations has
proclaimed next year the International Year of
Mountains. This is certainly a very important and
productive initiative on a global level. We, the
members of the delegation of Kyrgyz Republic, can
indeed be proud that one of the most important
initiatives of the International Year of Mountains was
taken by our President, Askar Akayev.
It is indeed true that the mountains of the world
are a symbol of the lofty ideals of humankind, but
mountains also pose related ecological, economic and
social problems for the people living in those areas.
High mountains should not cause these problems for
their inhabitants. I fully agree fully with Mrs. Benita
Ferrero-Waldner, the Foreign Minister of Austria, that
the International Year of Mountains should be a year
6

for new initiatives for exchanging experience and
drafting new programmes of cooperation.
The acuity of the ecological problems of
mountainous areas and their connection to economic
problems led our specialists to examine international
experience in order to see how to restructure our debts
by seeking debt-relief in exchange for ecological
initiatives. We feel that this approach provides a unique
opportunity for financing national ecological and
environmental projects and economic investment
programmes. We should also like to express the hope
that at the upcoming International Conference on
Financing for Development in Mexico, sufficient
attention will be given to the specific problems of
mountainous countries.
We wish to take this opportunity to welcome the
decision of Member States to hold an official opening
ceremony for the International Year of Mountains in
New York in December of next year. We also note with
great satisfaction that in October 2002, the capital of
Kyrgyzstan, Bishkek, will welcome representatives
from all over the world for the Bishkek Global
Mountain Summit. We are already preparing for this
very important event, which will take place during the
International Year of Mountains. We wish to express
our hope that the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, will be able participate in the
Summit.
In conclusion, I should like to express our deep
conviction that the efforts of United Nations Member
States and the entire world community are aimed at
implementing the ideals and principles enshrined in the
Millennium Declaration and the United Nations
Charter, and that they will lead to the triumph of peace,
freedom and democracy.






"
56,2001,TJK,"﻿This
session of the General Assembly is facing the very
important task of comparing and coordinating the
positions of the members of the international
community on the most urgent issues of our time, that
is, ensuring strategic stability and equal security for all
States, strengthening the coordinating role of the
United Nations in the maintenance of international
peace and security and the settlement of regional
conflict, fighting poverty and disease, and creating
conditions for sustainable development and prosperity
of all peoples on our planet. It is clear that the search
for a collective response to the unprecedented
challenge thrown down to mankind by international
terrorism on 11 September has become a key subject of
this session.
The twentieth century proved convincingly that
the United Nations has indeed become the centre for
harmonizing the actions of nations in maintaining
36

peace, ensuring collective security, developing
international cooperation, and ensuring respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thanks to the
joint efforts of its Member States, the Organization has,
in 55 years, become a universal forum capable of
developing joint political approaches of the community
of nations towards resolving the most urgent and
complicated problems of world development. The role
of the United Nations as the most representative
international forum for discussing the whole range of
problems faced by mankind, and developing
approaches for international cooperation in dealing
with such problems, is becoming more significant with
each passing year. In the view of the President of
Tajikistan, Emomali Rakhmonov, the task of
strengthening the central role of the United Nations has
become more rather than less urgent.
During the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly the Republic of Tajikistan will be celebrating
the tenth anniversary of its United Nations
membership. Since the first day of its international
recognition, Tajikistan has been working closely with
the United Nations. Cooperation with the United
Nations in the first years of its independence helped
Tajikistan to stop civil strife, to find an effective
formula for peace and national accord and now to start
post-conflict peace-building.
We will never forget that dramatic period and the
selfless assistance and support that we were given by
Member States, the Security Council, and specialized
agencies. Our special gratitude goes to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose contribution to the
settlement of the inter-Tajik conflict deserves the
greatest appreciation. We believe that the Nobel Peace
Prize awarded to the United Nations also reflects the
success achieved under its leadership by the
international community in the peaceful settlement of
the internal conflict in Tajikistan and in overcoming its
consequences. We are convinced that the unique
experience of peacemaking in Tajikistan deserves in-
depth consideration and study. Practical lessons learned
from the settlement of the inter-Tajik conflict and the
United Nations peacemaking activities will enable the
international community to find new approaches
towards resolving conflicts in other hot spots on the
planet.
The variety of problems dealt with by the United
Nations highlights the unique and universal role played
by the Organization in regulating international affairs.
That is particularly important in the field of
international security. The Republic of Tajikistan calls
for ensuring strategic stability in the world based on
maintaining the existing system of agreements and
treaties on disarmament and a continuing process of
arms limitation, on both a unilateral and multilateral
basis. Tajikistan, for its part, is prepared to make its
contribution to this process. In cooperation with our
neighbouring States, we are actively working to
implement the initiative of establishing a nuclear-free
zone in Central Asia. We hope that a treaty to this
effect will shortly be ready for signing by the heads of
State in our region, and expect that all nuclear Powers
will become its guarantors.
The appalling acts of terror perpetrated in the
United States on 11 September forced the whole world
to confront the issue of international terrorism and take
a fresh look at it. In order to solve this problem, it will
be necessary to analyse the whole set of new
challenges and threats and develop new approaches
towards creating a credible and effective system for
countering them. May I remind Member States that, on
behalf of the people of Tajikistan, immediately after
the terrorist acts, President Emomali Rakhmonov
conveyed sincere condolences and sympathy to the
families of all those who had died or suffered. He
expressed full solidarity with the people of the United
States and readiness to cooperate closely with their
Government and the Governments of other States in
eradicating international terrorism.
Tajikistan has always condemned terrorism in all
its manifestations and categorically rejects the use of
terrorist acts as a means of achieving political or other
goals. We reject any attempts to justify acts of terror on
political, religious, philosophical, ethnic or racial
grounds. International cooperation in combating
terrorism and extremism is not an abstract notion for
our country. The Tajik people are very well aware of
the methods and practices of international terrorism. In
recent years, Tajikistan has repeatedly been a target of
terrorist activities carried out from outside. In addition
to the huge material losses, such actions always entail
loss of life and enormous human suffering. What is
worse, terrorism attempts not only to derail the peace
process in Tajikistan, but also to destabilize the
situation over a vast region of Asia. Acts of
37

international terrorism constitute a grave threat to
international peace and security. In combating
terrorism in any part of our planet, the international
community should be guided by similar criteria and act
in a resolute, sincere and, most important, consistent
manner. All States must unconditionally and fully
implement the provisions of United Nations Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), including those which
call for depriving terrorists and their sponsors of
financial or any other support and haven.
We believe that one of the primary objectives of
this session of the General Assembly is to consolidate
the legal framework, under United Nations auspices,
for the interaction of States in combating international
terrorism. In our view, the early adoption of a
comprehensive convention on combating international
terrorism and the convention on combating acts of
nuclear terrorism could be of great significance in this
regard. On various occasions, in particular from this
rostrum, the President of Tajikistan has called for
uniting the efforts of the community of nations to
combat the international terrorist underground. Our
country has interacted effectively with other States in
combating international terrorism on a bilateral and
multilateral basis, in particular within the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), the
Shanghai Cooperation Organization and other
international organizations. The United Nations, with
its unprecedented experience and authority in
coordinating the efforts of its Member States, is called
upon to play the key role in establishing a global
system to counteract a threat of such magnitude as
international terrorism. It will take much effort and
time. However, the lofty and vitally important goal of
eradicating this dreadful phenomenon is worthy of such
endeavour.
The five weeks that have elapsed since the
beginning of the military operation in Afghanistan have
proved that the Afghan problem cannot be resolved by
means of force alone. There is simply no military
solution to it, and history has provided convincing
proof of that. At the high-level meeting yesterday of
the Six plus Two Group, and today at the meeting of
the Security Council on Afghanistan, the delegation of
Tajikistan emphasized that under current circumstances
the Afghan people have a unique opportunity to return
to peaceful and stable development. This is an
opportunity for Afghanistan to become a full-fledged
member of the international community and to change
its unfortunate image of an accomplice in international
terrorism and other criminal, destructive, destabilizing
movements. The Afghan nation is on the threshold of
fundamental change. The most crucial task, and I
would say a matter of honour for the international
community, is to help the Afghan people to take
advantage of this opportunity. Everything must be done
to make sure that in the future Afghanistan is no longer
a threat to the Afghans themselves, to neighbouring
countries and to international security overall.
Everything must be done in order to ensure respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms in
Afghanistan, including putting an end to the shameful
discrimination against women and girls. Everything
must be done to restore to the Afghan people hope for a
peaceful future and prosperity. Tajikistan is prepared,
in cooperation with other concerned States, and with a
central coordinating role for the United Nations, to
assist Afghanistan, a country with a great history, to
regain a worthy future and to restore its former
attractive image in the eyes of the international
community. We believe that determining the future of
Afghanistan is the exclusive prerogative of the Afghan
people themselves. One of the indispensable conditions
for returning Afghanistan to a peaceful life is ending
outside interference and uniting, under United Nations
auspices, the efforts of the international community to
accelerate the process of political settlement of the
Afghan problem and the rehabilitation of the country.
Furthermore, it is essential that all hotbeds of
terrorism, elements of organized crime and the
structures and — most importantly — the production
potential of the drug business be eliminated in
Afghanistan.
It goes without saying that the territorial integrity
of Afghanistan must be guaranteed. Only the
establishment of a freely chosen, effective, broad-
based, politically balanced and multi-ethnic Afghan
administration can guarantee peace and stability in the
country. It also goes without saying that the Taliban
movement as a political group has no place in a future
Afghan administration since this could be fraught with
the danger of the recurrence of terrorism and the drug
trade in Afghanistan.
We are profoundly concerned about the grave
humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. The refusal of
the Taliban regime to fulfil the demands of the anti-
terrorist coalition to hand over the masterminds and
organizers of the acts of terror in the United States has
38

resulted in new sufferings for the Afghan people and an
increase in the numbers of refugees and displaced
persons. According to the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, among the 22
million refugees throughout the world, at least one out
of six is an Afghan. According to the estimates of the
humanitarian organizations, the drought that has
continued for three years in Afghanistan has already
resulted in the incredible impoverishment of the entire
population, and military operations and the
approaching winter have placed millions of Afghan
people on the edge of extinction. The actual reality is
such that the coming winter threatens millions of
Afghans with death from starvation. Right after the
beginning of the United States anti-terrorist operation
in Afghanistan, the Tajikistan Government issued a
special decision expressing its readiness to open its
airspace and related infrastructure for providing
humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan
who have been suffering from the Taliban tyranny for a
long time. We call upon all Member States and
humanitarian institutions and organizations to give all
the necessary assistance to the people of Afghanistan
without delay. If that is not done, then Afghanistan will
become the scene of a horrendous humanitarian
tragedy. It could cause a wave of instability in
neighbouring States and in the region as a whole. We
cannot allow that to happen.
The policy of drug production and export pursued
by the Taliban regime can be described as a policy
against humanity. It is sad that Afghanistan, one of the
founding Members of the United Nations and one of
the cradles of world civilization and culture, has now,
through the fault of the Taliban regime, become one of
the world’s largest producers of lethal drugs.
According to the United Nations Office for Drug
Control and Crime Prevention, the considerable
decrease in the poppy crop in Afghanistan this year has
not resulted in a reduction of illicit heroin trafficking,
either to neighbouring countries or to Europe. Huge
amounts of raw opium stored in the Taliban-controlled
territory were used for heroin trafficking. The quantity
of heroin that has been destroyed in Tajikistan this year
alone is three times as much as last year, and this
amounts to tons of this deadly product.
As a result of the tragic events of 11 September, a
new situation has emerged in Afghanistan. The United
Nations has been unable to continue assistance to the
Afghan farmers and exercise control over drug
production and trade. The Taliban movement, for
whom, under the current circumstances, drug
trafficking has become one of its major sources of
income, took advantage of this situation. That has put
an additional burden on neighbouring countries, such
as Tajikistan, that are trying to block drug trafficking
from Afghanistan. We understand that the drug threat
emanating from Afghanistan can be eliminated only
through a lasting peace settlement in the country and
by establishing a new coalition government that would
ensure fulfilment of all its international commitments.
However, that will take time. For this reason we
express our gratitude to the Office for Drug Control
and Crime Prevention and to all donor States that are
funding the anti-drug programmes implemented by the
Office, and call upon them to increase their assistance
to Tajikistan in its noble struggle against illicit flows of
deadly substances from Afghanistan, a struggle that
serves the interests of millions of people in various
countries. We in Tajikistan attach great importance to
this struggle and view it as an important contribution to
combating international terrorism by depriving it of
one of the main sources of its financial support.
The Millennium Summit and Millennium
Assembly, which have become milestones in the
international dialogue, identified globalization as the
main challenge to the international community. There
is no doubt that globalization, which is an objective
economic process, provides unprecedented
opportunities for accelerated development. At the same
time, it is obvious that the benefits of globalization are
distributed quite unequally, and the balance of benefits
and costs is definitely in favour of the developed
nations. The conclusion is obvious: for various reasons
many developing countries and economies in transition
run the serious risk of finding themselves on the
sidelines, away from the mainstream development of
civilization. Only by applying all available mechanisms
of multilateral international institutions can we stop the
widening gap in development and incomes between
rich and poor countries that was caused by
globalization, and prevent an increase in poverty,
unequal access to advanced technologies, cross-border
crime and the spread of hidden forms of discrimination
in international trade.
As for Tajikistan, it faces the long-term problem
of rebuilding a country that has been heavily damaged
by civil strife. The Government is undertaking all
possible measures to strengthen civil society, to
39

encourage economic recovery and to create favourable
conditions for healthy and sustainable social and
economic development. We hope that the participants
in the Consultative Group Meeting for Tajikistan, held
in Tokyo in May 2001, will fulfil their commitments to
Tajikistan, which would enable us to channel additional
resources to rehabilitation projects. That would
increase employment and substantially reduce poverty.
The problem of combating poverty will remain, in the
short term, one of the priority tasks for the Government
of Tajikistan. The targeted comprehensive programme
that is currently being implemented in the country
envisages, in particular, measures to create new jobs, to
improve primary education, to ease access to loans and
microcredits, and, what is particularly important, to
enhance the development of rural regions. We are
carefully studying the experience of other countries in
combating poverty. The progress made by some
States — in particular in China, our neighbour — is
quite encouraging. However, the high level of external
indebtedness of Tajikistan is a major obstacle in this
regard. It also impedes post-conflict peace-building
and poses a serious threat to social and economic
stability in our country. We are convinced that in order
to support the developing countries and economies in
transition in combating poverty it is important for the
international community to become more dynamic and
flexible in easing the debt burden for our countries.
In recent years we have witnessed an increasing
number of major natural and industrial disasters,
including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and forest
fires. Human casualties and material losses caused by
them have become a serious destabilizing factor. For
two years running, Tajikistan has suffered as a result of
a large-scale drought, unprecedented in the twentieth
century. One third of our cotton and grain crops was
destroyed by drought. Cattle farming and animal
husbandry products have sharply declined. Shortages
of water, including fresh water, have increased. We
express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, to the
United Nations specialized agencies and donor
countries for their prompt and generous response to the
appeal made by our President in connection with the
unprecedented drought in the spring and summer of
this year. The concerted collective response of the
international community to natural disasters is
evidence of the increasing effectiveness of the
available international machinery in this regard. The
United Nations has played an important role in
developing them. The outcome of the United Nations
International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction
has shown the need to increasingly use national
opportunities and to enhance international cooperation
in this field.
In the context of globalization, natural and
industrial disasters demand an appropriate global
response. It is essential that the community of nations
unite its efforts to prevent natural disasters and deal
with their consequences by training personnel and
exchanging experience and the results of scientific and
applied research. That would also allow coordinated
approaches to such global challenges as the greenhouse
effect, the depletion of the ozone layer, endangered
biodiversity and desertification. All these issues are
directly linked to the problem of protecting the
environment, a problem that is global by its very
nature.
Among the environmental challenges of the
twenty-first century, the problem of maintaining water
equilibrium and access to fresh water is one of the most
urgent. The population of earth is increasing, and the
need for fresh water is also increasing, while natural
water resources are not increasing. One out of six
people on earth does not have access to fresh water
today. The danger of the world’s diminishing fresh
water resources is quite evident: it represents a threat
to the environment and to all life on earth. This
tendency is not becoming less acute, and therefore
Tajikistan, which possesses considerable water
resources in Central Asia, greatly appreciates all efforts
to deal with the problem of fresh water resources at all
levels throughout the world. We are pleased that the
initiative of the President of Tajikistan, Emomali
Rakhmonov, to proclaim 2003 the international year of
fresh water has received wide-ranging support in the
community of nations. We believe that the preparation
and holding of events dedicated to the international
year of fresh water, at both international and national
levels, will help us all to find answers to the global
challenges faced by mankind and to come closer to a
solution to the strategic problem of providing access to
fresh water to every person on earth.
With the beginning of the new century, the
number of problems faced by mankind has not
diminished. The entire history of the United Nations
has demonstrated that the best way to deal with
problems is through collective action, based on an
agreed platform. We have such a platform: the
Millennium Declaration adopted by our heads of State,
40

on a basis of global consensus, in the autumn of 2000.
The task that lies before us, the United Nations, is to
mobilize energy and resources to achieve our common
goals in meeting the challenges of globalization. The
peoples of our planet believe in the effectiveness of our
Organization. We should not fail to meet their hopes
and expectations.






"
56,2001,IND,"﻿I congratulate the President on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session. I also take this opportunity to warmly
congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
and the United Nations on being honoured with the
Nobel Peace Prize.
This session of the General Assembly is being
held in the shadow of the barbaric terrorist acts of 11
September, which dramatically reminded us that
neither distance nor power insulates a State from
terrorism. Such acts represent an arrogant rejection of
the values of freedom and tolerance, which democratic
and pluralistic societies cherish.
Even while uniting the nations of the world in
their grief, this terrible tragedy has created the
opportunity to fashion a determined global response to
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, wherever
it exists and under whatever name.
We in India know from our own bitter experience
that terrorists develop global networks driven by
religious extremism. Their operations are supported by
drug trafficking, money laundering and arms
smuggling. Some States follow a policy of sponsoring
and sheltering them. Terrorists can only be countered
through closely coordinated efforts of the international
community.
Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and
1373 (2001) are steps in the right direction, but it
requires the firm political will of the freedom-loving
world to implement them rigorously. The two crucial
elements in this would be strict curbs on sources of
financing for terrorists and denying them safe havens
for training, arming and operation.
We must firmly rebuff any ideological, political
or religious justification for terrorism. We should reject
self-serving arguments seeking to classify terrorism
according to its root causes, and therefore justifying
32

terrorist action somewhere while condemning it
elsewhere. Those that advance these arguments should
explain what the root causes of the brutal acts of 11
September were.
India supports the current campaign against the
terrorist networks in Afghanistan. We hope that it
reaches an early and successful conclusion. That
country’s current travails can only end with the
establishment of a broad-based, representative and
neutral Government, which would stop the export of
terrorism and extremism. The international community
should work towards this goal, even while the military
campaign continues, so that we avoid a political
vacuum at the end of the campaign.
We must recognize that current structures to
facilitate a post-Taliban political settlement are
unrepresentative and therefore ineffective. Located as
it is in Afghanistan’s neighbourhood, India’s vital
national interests are affected by developments in it.
We also have traditionally close links with
Afghanistan. This is the basis for our belief that India
can play a useful role in this process.
The task of reconstruction in post-conflict
Afghanistan also merits the urgent attention of the
international community. It would require massive
external assistance to create an economic situation
conducive to the speedy return and rehabilitation of the
millions of Afghans who have taken refuge in other
countries of this region. Again India stands ready to
join international efforts for this.
We have already announced relief assistance of a
million tons of wheat, medicines and medical
assistance for needy Afghans within, and outside, the
country. We have also pledged $100 million to post-
conflict Afghanistan for reconstruction. We are
prepared to do more.
Nearly 6,000 lives were lost on 11 September, but
the global economic downturn in its aftermath will take
a far larger human toll, mainly in the developing world.
The World Bank has estimated that tens of thousands
more children will die worldwide and some 10 million
more people are likely to go below the poverty line of
$1 a day. It is pertinent to reflect on these chilling
statistics even as the Ministerial Conference gets under
way in Doha to consider World Trade Organization
(WTO) issues. Before we embark on any new
initiatives for globalization and sustainable
development, we should recognize that political
support for them will be determined primarily by the
impact of these regimes on poverty.
For most developing countries, the Uruguay
Round has done little for economic growth, while
poverty levels and income gaps have worsened.
Globalization has constrained developing countries in
mobilizing public resources for poverty alleviation.
That is why public support for the globalization regime
has vanished in developing countries. This is also why
we have argued strongly that implementation issues
should first be resolved before we try to widen the
WTO agenda further. Our public is unwilling to accept
another post-dated cheque, when an earlier one has
bounced.
Similarly, the movement towards sustainable
development has proved a disappointment. Developing
countries are unable to realize fair payments for their
sovereign biodiversity resources and traditional
knowledge. The treaties on climate change and
biodiversity have also failed to activate the anticipated
investment and technology transfers to developing
countries. Industrialized countries have not shown the
political will to enhance their overseas development
budgets. Multilateral development agencies are also
constrained in their resources, of which, in any case,
very little is available on concessional terms.
The inevitable conclusion is that for current
regimes of globalization and sustainable development
to be strengthened, or even to survive, they must be re-
engineered to generate large-scale finances for poverty
alleviation. The passion for globalization has to be
tempered by compassion for its victims. Sadly, this
thought has not penetrated into the thinking of the
developed economies. Their actions also do not reflect
the realization that there cannot be a sustainable revival
of their own sluggish economies unless the
globalization and sustainable development priorities
are re-oriented and anchored in the developmental
needs of two-thirds of the global population.
A year ago, I suggested in my speech to the
United States Congress a comprehensive global
dialogue on development. The aim of such a dialogue
would be to address the highly unstable situation in
which one-third of the world’s population lives in
luxury and condemns the remaining two-thirds to
poverty and want. It is a fertile breeding ground for
political unrest, economic chaos and social fractures.
33

India would be happy to coordinate this dialogue,
with the immediate objective of mobilizing resources
for poverty alleviation programmes in developing
countries. A preliminary agenda for the dialogue could
include the accelerated liquidation of external debts of
low-income and highly indebted countries; poverty
alleviation programmes specifically aimed at
developing countries facing financial crises;
stabilization of international prices of primary
commodity exports; and, most importantly, welfare and
development programmes for all the world’s needy
children — for their nutrition, health, education and
protection from degrading and hazardous employment.
The struggle for equitable development and the
war against poverty are as important as our campaign
against terrorism and our collective search for security.
At a time when an external stimulus has motivated us
to unite against terrorism and for security, let us
summon an equally strong inner resolve for
development and poverty alleviation. They are just as
crucial for a global order at peace with itself.
This fundamental and seamless linkage between
peace, security and development can be recalled in the
sage words of the great Indian poet Rabindranath
Tagore:
“From now onward, any nation that takes an
isolated view of its own interests will run
contrary to the spirit of the New Age, and will
know no peace. From now onward, the anxiety
that each country has for its own safety must
embrace the welfare of the whole world.”


"
56,2001,YEM,"﻿I am
pleased, first of all, to convey through you, Sir, our
sincere congratulations to President Han Seung-soo on
28

his election as President of the current session of the
General Assembly. I am certain that with his expertise
and skill he will conduct the proceedings of this
session successfully. I should also like to express our
appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for
the distinction with which he conducted the
proceedings of the last session.
Our current meetings are convened amid
extraordinary circumstances arising from the acts of
terrorism committed against the United States of
America on the very day set for the opening of this
session. It is regrettable that the first session of the
United Nations General Assembly of the twenty-first
century should be convened in the aftermath of those
alarming events. These events truly constitute a
negative phenomenon that will have major
repercussions on inter-State relations at the bilateral
and multilateral levels alike. Furthermore, these events
have convinced everyone that there is no alternative to
collective endeavour through legitimate structures to
confront the challenges of the future. We would like to
stress the necessity of supporting the United Nations as
an ideal framework for international cooperation,
particularly at this stage when collective endeavour is
indispensable for coping with the problems that now, in
the era of globalization, affect us all to a greater or
lesser extent. In this connection, we congratulate the
United Nations and its Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, on receiving the Nobel Peace Prize for 2001,
which has come at an appropriate time as an
appreciative expression of the role of the Organization
and the effective leadership of its Secretary-General.
The perseverance of the host country in ensuring
quasi-normal conditions for the work of this session
reflects a will to transcend the catastrophe and displays
confidence in the triumph of reason. Permit me, as I
stand at the heart of this great and wounded city, to
convey, on behalf of the leadership, Government and
people of Yemen, our sincere condolences and deepest
sympathy to the American President, the Government
and people of the United States, and to convey these
sentiments in particular to the families of the innocent
victims whose lives were lost in the tragic events of 11
September.
Although the scourge of terrorism has struck the
United States this time, claiming thousands of innocent
victims, the phenomenon of terrorism is not new.
Indeed, it is directed against the whole world. These
recent acts of terrorism claimed victims from 70
foreign countries, including Yemen. These acts were
not targeted against the United States and Americans
alone; rather, the target was international peace and
security. Regrettably, the phenomenon of terrorism has
worsened because of negligence in confronting it. We
in the Republic of Yemen have not been spared the
perils and threats of terrorism. Our country has been
scorched by its fire and afflicted in many ways, but our
appeals for timely, effective cooperation fell on deaf
ears.
Today, in the face of this loathsome act of
terrorism, the Republic of Yemen reiterates its stand,
condemning terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations, whatever its causes and sources. As we
proclaim the readiness of the Government of the
Republic of Yemen to strive, within the framework of
international legitimacy, for the elimination of
terrorism, we also affirm our desire that those
endeavours not lead to the suffering of innocent
persons or to the practice of oppression that will result
in the emergence of a new generation of terrorists.
We also affirm the Arab Islamic position that
rejects attempts to link terrorism to Arabs and
Muslims. Terrorism, as history teaches us, has no
religion, no homeland and no identity. On the same
grounds, Yemen censures the voices that stir up
propaganda for a clash of civilizations or, to be precise,
a clash of Islam with Christianity. Instead, we call for a
meaningful intercultural dialogue and for the creation
of common concepts centred on justice, human and
religious values.
The desire to combat and eliminate terrorism
makes it incumbent upon the international community
to launch an unremitting campaign based on uniform
and clearly defined criteria identifying terrorists, be
they individuals, or collective or State terrorism. The
international community cannot shirk its responsibility
to oppose State terrorism — just as it opposes terrorism
by individuals and groups.
Logically, it follows that the Security Council
should put an end to the crimes committed daily by
Israel against the Palestinian people forcing Israel to
withdraw from the occupied Arab territories and to
implement the resolutions of international legitimacy,
first and foremost of which are Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). In this regard,
the Republic of Yemen proclaims that it welcomes
President George W. Bush’s statement on the necessity
29

of establishing a Palestinian State with all the elements
of sovereignty. This declaration has met with ever-
increasing international support. Israel must realize that
its security is bound up with its neighbour’s security
and that its secure future lies in the inevitable
acceptance of the Palestinian people’s right to establish
their own independent State and in its respecting the
Palestinians’ sovereignty over their territory.
Today’s world is characterized by rapid
transformations that, taken as a whole, are the natural
labour pains that precede the birth of a new reality
reflecting humankind’s yearning for a more just and
prosperous world. The current reality and nature of
international relations differ from those of the 1990s;
in fact, they differ to some extent from the prevailing
situation only two months ago, to be precise, prior to
the tragic and bloody events of September. These
events diverted attention from globalization issues, the
furthering of the democratic process and the diffusion
of human rights to an endeavour to confront and
eliminate terrorism. Everyone is aware that the
exigencies of combating and eradicating terrorism
demand adherence to democratic decision-making
methods. Decisions must be adopted on the basis of
agreement and participation, exactly as is required at
the national level.
The logic of force has unquestionably become an
outdated logic, which can in no way lead to the
establishment of sound international relations or ensure
lasting solutions to the problems that inevitably arise
from time to time in inter-State relations. The Republic
of Yemen has striven tirelessly to ensure the best
means of achieving peace and stability at the regional
and world levels, and has adhered to the course of
resolving disputes by peaceful means and by accepting
and adhering to the principle of good-neighbourliness.
On this basis, our political leadership, represented
by President Ali Abdullah Saleh, has made continuous
and unremitting efforts to help end the strife between
the warring factions in fraternal Somalia. It hastened to
welcome the outcome of the Arta Peace Conference
and was among the first to support the provisional
national Government, under the leadership of President
Salad Hassan, as a legitimate entity representing
Somali national consensus.
The ordeal that our Somali brothers are
experiencing, both inside and outside the country,
confronts the international community with its
responsibility to provide aid and support to the
provisional Government and to increase assistance to
the Somali refugees in neighbouring countries,
including our own. Our country has opened its arms to
some 150,000 of our Somali brothers, despite the
difficult economic circumstances it is currently
experiencing.
Recent events have proved beyond doubt that
there is an urgent need to amend the rules of
international relations so as to ensure consensus in
decision-making and collective participation in efforts
to confront the growing challenges and dangers that
face us all and that are not confined within the borders
of any one State. That naturally makes it imperative to
reconsider the policy of imposing international
embargoes and sanctions that do not represent the
collective will nor the required agreements, while the
facts affirm their harmfulness and futility.
The sanctions imposed on the Iraqi people and
the suffering of that people are a burden on the human
conscience, and their continuation raises an increasing
number of questions about the truth of the aims behind
the insistence on their maintenance, now that the
justifications for the decision to impose those sanctions
no longer exist: Iraq has committed itself to
implementing the United Nations resolutions
guaranteeing Kuwait’s security and sovereignty over its
territory. My country has used its good offices with
fraternal Kuwait and Iraq and continues to do so, with
a view to finding a solution to the issue of Kuwaiti and
other prisoners and missing persons, and cooperating in
the settlement of this distressing issue. Here, we would
like to express our happiness at the decision taken by
the Security Council to lift the sanctions imposed on
Sudan.
At a time when fraternal Libya and certain other
States are still suffering from unjust embargo policies,
there is an urgent need to reconsider those embargo
resolutions that have become obsolete and have been
overtaken by events.
One cause for optimism is the desire shown by
both the United Arab Emirates and Iran, and the
current contacts between them, to find a solution to the
issue of the three islands of the Emirates in the Arabian
Gulf. Yemen welcomes this move by the two fraternal
States while wishing to affirm that direct talks or
international arbitration are the option that will
30

preserve the security of the region and strengthen
relations between the two countries.
Developing countries are still experiencing
extremely difficult economic and social conditions, and
the financial sources for national development
investment are almost non-existent, since external debt
and debt servicing consume most national development
earnings. This is evident in the least developed
countries, a group to which the Republic of Yemen
belongs. In this context, we deem it essential to strive
to implement the recommendations of the Third United
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries.
The Republic of Yemen wishes to participate in
the preparatory meetings for the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Mexico, as it is an international gathering
that will address, inter alia, issues related to the
mobilization of the financial resources necessary for
comprehensive development activities. These include
commitment to pay official development assistance
pledges, considering the development of ways to
increase the domestic resources necessary for
development activities and increasing donor assistance,
particularly to national plans aimed at eliminating
poverty in all its dimensions.
The Government of the Republic of Yemen is
following a comprehensive development approach
under extremely difficult economic circumstances.
Large sums are allocated in the national budget for
building the infrastructure, and particular importance is
given to multidimensional programmes for the
elimination of poverty. An effort is being made to
ensure the participation of the various segments of civil
society in the process of decision-making for
development activities.
Seeking integration into the global economy, the
competent authorities in Yemen are endeavouring to
fulfil the requirements for joining the World Trade
Organization. In this context, the Government has
adopted a number of measures related to economic
reforms and to finding new markets. However, in that
regard there are obstacles facing the Republic of
Yemen, as is the case with other least developed
countries seeking market integration. An effort must be
made to remove these obstacles by allowing access to
world markets for Yemen’s products and by affording it
an opportunity to acquire the technology needed for
development, particularly communications and
information technology.
The process of globalization, which in its current
form has some positive elements, should give due
consideration to human needs and not be confined to
market interests. Inter-State relations characterized by
justice and shared responsibility, as envisioned last
year in the Millennium Declaration, should prevail.
With regard to bilateral economic cooperation,
my country’s delegation would like to express its
thanks and appreciation for the contributions of
friendly States — in particular Germany, the
Netherlands and Japan - that are providing assistance to
development plans and programmes in the Republic of
Yemen.
The most important trend in the world today is
unquestionably the increasing move towards
democracy as a necessary requirement for the
achievement of equity, justice and social peace. In the
Republic of Yemen, the democratic process has been a
basis for guaranteeing the unity achieved on 22 May
1990 and has been organically linked to that unity.
In spite of the short time since its achievement of
unity and its proclamation of commitment to the
democratic process, my country has made major strides
towards the achievement of political pluralism, the
peaceful transfer of power and the guaranteeing of
human rights, especially with regard to the
participation of women in the comprehensive
development process. The most recent of these
achievements were the free direct elections for the
presidency of the Republic last year and the local
Government elections early this year. Our manifest
desire to develop the democratic process led to the
convening of the Emerging Democracies Forum in
Sana’a last year, which was the first conference of its
kind.
Lastly, we would like to express our desire to host
the next International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies, scheduled to take place in 2003. We hope
that our request will be supported. The Conference will
provide an opportunity for participants to get to know
first-hand the country in the land of Sheba — a country
that has practised consultation and democracy since the
dawn of civilization.
In conclusion, I hope that our meetings here will
result in the promotion of joint endeavours that fulfil
31

the aspirations of our peoples for a world in which
justice triumphs over inequity and poverty and in
which peace, rather than fear and war, prevails.




"
56,2001,CZE,"﻿Let me
congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to the
presidency of the fifty-sixth session of the General
Assembly and wish him every success in this important
post. At the same time, I take this opportunity to offer
my most sincere congratulations to the Secretary-
General, Kofi Annan, and the entire United Nations on
the occasion of the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize award, and
to express my gratitude for their determination to
defend the ideas of tolerance and mutual respect among
nations.
Allow me to extend my own and my country’s
deepest sympathy to all those who lost loved ones in
the horrible terrorist attacks of 11 September. We are
deeply moved by the unspeakable tragedy and share the
grief of the American people and of all those affected.
We perceive the horrifying attack as an attack against
the entire civilized international community against the
principles of freedom, democracy and peace, the
principles upon which the Organization stands. In the
aftermath of the attacks of 11 September, the concepts
of security, peace and solidarity are acquiring a new
and distinct meaning. We recognize the growing
interdependency of individual actors on the
international scene. The dangers of the new threats and
risks that confront our civilization come to the
forefront. To conquer them we must not only move
energetically against the perpetrators, but also
concentrate on the causes that propel them.
At the same time, we are witnessing significant
progress leading to the creation of new relationships in
the international community. The fact that we were
able to create such a wide anti-terrorist coalition so
swiftly is very encouraging indeed. It is imperative to
strengthen that coalition and enable it not only to fight
effectively against terrorism but also to contribute to
solving other pressing problems, especially those
whose solution will strengthen the struggle against
terrorism by reducing tension and promoting justice
and stability. The current, unusually wide, international
coalition against terrorism presents, I believe, a unique
opportunity that we should seize. We should do our
utmost to make it effective and operational. We should
do our utmost not to let it collapse for reasons that
would not stand up to the inevitable future scrutiny of
our sons and daughters. We should do our utmost to
avoid the trap of allowing the struggle against
terrorism, the struggle for peace, justice, stability and
coexistence, to be replaced by a clash of civilizations,
by the very war that Osama bin Laden is calling for, by
a war against Islam. That would be a tragedy.
The international community has at its disposal
great potential to address even the most complex
problems and crises. It must now reach an agreement
on how to approach them and on which tools it will
employ to address them. International organizations,
and the United Nations specifically, play an
irreplaceable role in this process.
The Czech Republic is determined to contribute
to the search for effective ways to meet the most
pressing challenges of today and to support the
international response to terrorism and the actions
undertaken so far, especially if the military operation
continues to be targeted as accurately as possible
against military targets, in this, it is hoped, the final
stage of the Taliban’s defeat. We view these actions as
legitimate and in accordance with the United Nations
Charter and United Nations Security Council resolution
1368 (2001). Today more than ever we feel it our duty
and obligation to preserve and cherish the uniqueness,
as well as the open and universal character, of the
United Nations and push more decisively for a
strengthening of the role we have entrusted to it.
When we approach these most pressing
challenges we must be proactive. For its part, the
Czech Republic is determined to carry its share. The
Czech Republic has submitted its candidacy for the
presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General
8

Assembly of the United Nations. We hold this highly
demanding and prestigious position in great respect and
are determined to actively participate in the realization
of the demanding tasks ahead of us, in the most
responsible manner. We are prepared to be attentive to
your voices and concerns and to serve the entire
membership. We obviously wish to help with the
implementation of the Millennium Declaration,
including the eradication of extreme poverty and the
integration of human rights into every aspect of our
work, as we were so eloquently reminded by Secretary-
General Kofi Annan a few days ago. We need to inch
forward the necessary reform of the United Nations
system, strengthen the role of the United Nations
General Assembly, help to challenge the
marginalization of important continents such as Africa,
Latin America and parts of Asia. We need also to help
the United Nations to play an effective role in the
struggle against international terrorism.
It is clear that accomplishing the objective of
finding and bringing to justice the perpetrators of the
attacks on the United States is most urgent and topical.
However, other phases can be embarked upon at the
same time. I agree with the President of Pakistan,
General Pervez Musharraf, who said at this Assembly
that a three-pronged strategy is needed: first, to go after
the main culprits, the individual terrorists; secondly, to
move decisively against the terrorist organizations; and
thirdly — what in my opinion is very important — to
address unresolved disputes, which proliferate
throughout the world and must be resolved in a helpful
and just manner. As I listened carefully to speeches
delivered here over the last few days by many leading
politicians of the world, I was pleased to confirm my
conviction that not only the Czech Republic or the
European Union, but also many other countries argue
that the fight against terrorism should combine the
necessary military operations with, above all, decisive
attempts to eradicate the root causes of terrorism. It is
therefore necessary to pay far greater attention to
conflicts that provide fertile soil for terrorism, because
if conflicts remain unresolved for decades, they give
rise to feelings of frustration, despair and
powerlessness or, as the President of the Islamic
Republic of Iran put it, to alienation, extremism and
lawlessness. Political solutions of conflicts, many of
which are essentially political conflicts, will reduce
tensions, promote peace and fairness and, especially,
take the wind out of the sails of those who put forward
the absurd myth that terrorist actions can bring about
anything other than loss of the lives of innocent people
and the exacerbation of problems and conflicts.
In our fight against terrorism we need to look for
comprehensive solutions and to that end employ all
available tools to identify, isolate and destroy the
terrorist networks and to combat terrorism as a whole.
Our anti-terrorist striving must equally concentrate on
combating international organized crime, people
smuggling, and drug and arms trafficking. On the
financial front it is necessary to cut terrorists off from
their resources. A determined focus on preventing
money-laundering is a crucial aspect of this effort.
Long-term and extensive development assistance aimed
at alleviating the most pressing problems of the
developing world should be an integral part of these
efforts by the international community.
The Czech Republic sees the upholding of the
unity and operational readiness of the international
coalition combating terrorism as the most imperative
task of the day. We, the international community,
should not lose this unique opportunity but should take
decisive action. The fight against terrorism is a long-
term mission and will have an impact on all aspects of
our lives. At the national level, the Czech Republic is
preparing a national plan for combating terrorism,
which is inspired by the Action Plan of the European
Union.
In recent weeks the United Nations has shown its
renewed resolve to combat international terrorism. We
commend the Security Council for its swift action and
we support the adoption of Security Council
resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001) to combat
threats to international peace and security caused by
terrorist acts. The Czech Republic is taking all
necessary steps towards the full implementation of the
provisions of resolution 1373 (2001), and fully
supports the actions of the relevant Counter-Terrorism
Committee.
My strong belief in the need for political and
diplomatic moves does not in any way suggest that one
should negotiate with the terrorists. Just the contrary.
Terrorists have to be defeated and brought to justice.
There can be no negotiations with the terrorists. The
evil of terrorism must be eradicated. The fight against
terrorism has a higher priority than ever before, and
nobody can stay neutral in this fight. The Czech
Republic is proud that it was able to offer both military
and humanitarian help to the efforts led by the United
9

States. The Czech Republic is proud that some of its
help was accepted and thus that some of our best
soldiers can now actively contribute to these joint
endeavours.
As I have said, conflicts can be a breeding ground
for terrorism. Terrorism fully exploits unresolved
conflicts and profits from their expansion. Therefore
our intensified fight against terrorism points
unequivocally to the need for the international
community to pay far greater attention to conflict
resolution in various regions. The United Nations must
continue its major role in maintaining peace and
security throughout the world by applying an integrated
approach of conflict prevention, peacekeeping
operations and post-conflict reconstruction.
Recognition of the roots of conflicts and
education towards tolerance must be incorporated into
our preventive strategies. We fully support the
implementation of the comprehensive overhaul of the
peacekeeping operations as proposed by the Brahimi
report (A/55/305) and other recent reports focusing on
this issue. The recent liberation of Mazar-e-Sharif in
northern Afghanistan, and even the most recent fall of
Kabul, improve our possibilities of supplying the
Afghan people with the humanitarian aid that they so
badly need. That must remain at the forefront of our
endeavours. We should do our utmost to alleviate the
suffering of the innocent Afghan people. I believe there
is an extremely important role for the United Nations
to play in the consolidation of the post-Taliban Afghan
State that is so desperately needed. We should fully
support the current efforts of the United Nations, and
especially those of Ambassador Brahimi, to form as
soon as possible a stable, broad-based Government that
will reflect the ethnic diversity of the country. I agree
with Foreign Secretary Jack Straw that the one
institution in the world that can deliver that better
future is the United Nations.
The greatest tensions today undoubtedly prevail
in the Middle East. It is regrettable that much of the
progress achieved in the past few years seems to have
been squandered. But the uphill struggle that faces us
there is no reason for doing nothing and letting things
get worse and would only mean that more people will
suffer and die. The Czech Republic is a traditional and
active supporter of the peace process in the Middle
East. We cannot reconcile ourselves with the current
setbacks. The political violence must be halted.
Diplomatic initiatives aimed at bringing the parties
back to the negotiating table must be fully supported.
The Czech Republic fully supports the right of the
Palestinians to their own viable and independent State.
Nevertheless, its final shape should be the result of
bilateral Palestinian-Israeli negotiations with the full
backing of the international community.
The international community has been
encouraged by the change in political leadership in the
Balkans, which offers a new opportunity to secure
genuine peace and economic reconstruction. The
upcoming local parliamentary elections in Kosovo will
be an important moment in the stabilization process. I
should like to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the
Secretary-General and his Special Representative in
Kosovo, Hans Haekkerup, for their work in the region.
Our admiration also goes to the United Nations Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and the
Kosovo Force (KFOR).
In Africa, despite some progress, not only
poverty and AIDS but also armed conflict remain
major challenges to the United Nations and the entire
international community. Although the destiny of the
continent lies in the hands of the Africans, the
international community should strengthen its efforts to
assist Africa in its struggle to achieve durable peace
and especially to acquire higher levels of development.
The struggle to reduce poverty has to stand at the
forefront of our joint endeavours. Debt relief and
market access are crucial elements of the economic
development of developing countries. The United
Nations must continue with its activities to promote
sustainable development and continue its programmes
aimed at providing basic health care and education,
fighting the HIV/AIDS pandemic, and averting the
devastation of the environment. A gender perspective
should be included in all these efforts. The gap
between the rich and poor countries continues to grow
and is further exacerbated by the imbalance in the
distribution of globalization benefits. The digital divide
is just an additional symptom of the growing disparity
between the developed and developing countries. The
United Nations, in cooperation with national
governments, the Bretton Woods institutions, the World
Trade Organization (WTO), the private sector, the non-
governmental sphere and civil society, must be
prepared to address the challenges of globalization. In
short, we should respond to the globalization of capital
by the globalization of solidarity and social justice.
10

We need to create a functioning international
legal environment in order to prosecute crimes against
humanity. The Czech Republic fully supports the entry
into force of the Rome Statute of the International
Criminal Court, an institution that I believe will be a
great asset for the maintenance of international law.
The protection of human rights will continue to shape
the fate of human society. Human rights are universal
and indivisible, and it is in the interests of United
Nations Member States to support their Organization in
its strenuous effort to secure the protection of human
rights in today’s globally interconnected world. We
must not remain indifferent to manifestations of
racism, xenophobia, religious or political persecution,
discrimination against minorities, violence against
women or the violation of the rights of the child,
regardless of where they take place. In this regard
allow me to mention the World Conference in Durban,
South Africa. However difficult the negotiations have
shown themselves to be, they point to the fact that
extreme intolerance and terrorism are closely
interlinked.
The implementation of United Nations reform is
imperative in order to make the work of our
Organization more effective. As I said at the beginning
of my statement, as a candidate for the presidency of
the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General
Assembly, I fully support the reaffirmation of the
central role of the General Assembly, the revitalization
of its work, and improvement of its procedural
methods. Equally, the reform of the Security Council,
including its enlargement in the categories of both
permanent and non-permanent members and limitation
of the veto, would enhance the authority of that body.
A re-evaluation of the application of the sanctions
mechanism must also play an important part in the
Council’s work. The United Nations, more than any
other international forum, is where people of all
cultures and religions meet. We come here from
various parts of our planet to solve the problems of
today’s world. Despite our different backgrounds we
gather here to approach the problems that face us
bound by the universal human values that unite us. The
highest of them all is the value of human life. We have
been tragically reminded that we need to promote the
culture of peace and to build an environment in which
the principles of these universally shared values will
take root. Now more than ever we must strive to
overcome our differences and be guided by our
common interests. Let us unite our efforts and ensure
that our work during this session of the General
Assembly contributes to a better, safer and more just
world.




"
56,2001,NAM,"﻿The fifty-sixth session
of the General Assembly is no ordinary one. We are
meeting in the aftermath of the despicable terrorist
attacks on New York, the seat of the United Nations,
Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania. Once again, we
express our deep condolences to the Government and
the people of the United States. Our thoughts go out to
the families of those who lost their loved ones in those
tragic and horrific events of 11 September. Namibia
reiterates its unreserved condemnation of these and all
other terrorist attacks, wherever they occur.
In the same vein, we express our condolences to
the families of those who perished in the American
Airlines accident on 12 November. We also convey our
condolences to the Government and the people of the
Dominican Republic.
Namibia also expresses its heartfelt sympathy to
the Government and the people of Algeria as they
mourn the deaths of those killed by the violent storm
and mudslides there. Our thoughts go out to their
families.
I would like to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo
on his unanimous election as President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session and to assure him of
Namibia’s cooperation during his tenure. I would also
like to congratulate his predecessor, His Excellency
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the skills he brought to the work
of the General Assembly while presiding over the fifty-
fifth session. Under his able leadership, we have made
a firm beginning to the implementation of the
Declaration of the Millennium Summit.
Our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and the
United Nations have earned a place among the Nobel
Peace Prize laureates. For this, as well as for his
unanimous, early re-election, Namibia extends warm
congratulations to the Secretary-General. This, indeed,
is eloquent testimony to the universal respect and
admiration he has earned from all Member States. We
wish him well and assure him of our full support
during his new term of office.
29

Today we face multiple challenges, some of
which threaten the future existence of communities and
nations. With the adoption of the historic Millennium
Declaration, world leaders pledged their determination
to address old as well as new obstacles hampering
peace and security. A solemn commitment has thus
been made to enhance social and economic prosperity
for all people, thereby ensuring a better world.
Through the United Nations, and with strong
political will, no challenge is insurmountable. The
United Nations is the only international body capable
of serving the interests of all nations. It is an effective
consultative and organizational forum for world affairs,
and it can create trust and confidence among nations. It
can bring peace to war-torn areas and bring relief and
development to people who need it most. When
sufficiently funded, its programmes and mandates can
help developing countries to meet the challenges of
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases threatening our
populations.
It is therefore important that we, the Member
States, reaffirm our commitment to continue to
strengthen our Organization in order to effectively
address the challenges of the new millennium. In this
context, we reiterate our call for the reform and
democratization of the Security Council. The Security
Council must be transparent and equitably
representative. Above all, it must be responsive and
accountable to all States Members, on whose behalf it
maintains international peace and security.
The outcome of the historic first Conference on
Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects, held in July 2001, marked an important
first step and set achievable goals to address the
problems associated with this scourge, at all levels. It
will now require the combined efforts of the United
Nations, Member States and relevant international and
regional organizations to ensure that rapid progress is
made to stop the proliferation of small arms and light
weapons, which has wreaked havoc, especially on the
African continent.
Terrorism has assumed an increasingly alarming
globalized character. For some time now, the
Movement of the Non-Aligned Countries has been
calling for an international conference against
terrorism. The time is now right for Member States to
reach a consensus on such a conference. In this respect,
I wish to point out that Namibia signed, on 10
November 2001, the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, and we call
on others to do likewise.
At the 1990 World Summit for Children we made
a collective commitment to put children first, take care
of and educate them and protect them from harm,
exploitation, war and abuse. Yet too many children in
too many parts of the world are still deprived of a
peaceful childhood. Let us seize the occasion of the
twenty-seventh special session of the General
Assembly, on children, to take effective measures to
make the world fit for all our children.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic has reached
catastrophic proportions. The Secretary-General
reminded us that nearly 22 million people have died of
HIV/AIDS and that out of more than 36 million people
infected worldwide by HIV/AIDS, 25.3 million live in
sub-Saharan Africa. Thus, if indeed we are to succeed
in reversing the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015, as world
leaders committed themselves to doing in so many
forums, then Governments, civil society and the private
sector must, in strong partnership, tackle HIV/AIDS. In
this connection, the establishment of the Global AIDS
and Health Fund to combat the AIDS epidemic and
other communicable diseases is a welcome initiative
which calls for generous contributions.
The World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance,
held in Durban, South Africa, was the beginning of a
process undertaken by the international community to
address the inhuman and brutal treatment of the victims
of the dehumanizing practice of slavery and
colonialism, especially the African people. The trans-
Atlantic slave trade and the colonization of the African
peoples remain the darkest and most humiliating
episode in the history of the African continent. The
healing process will be enhanced only if and when
those who committed and benefited from slavery and
colonialism accept their full responsibility.
Namibia applauds the establishment of the
International Criminal Court (ICC), designed to bring
to justice those individuals accused of the most serious
crimes of concern to the international community.
Recently, the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) adopted the Windhoek Plan of
Action on ICC Ratification and Implementation,
designed to promote early ratification of the ICC treaty.
30

Namibia is currently reviewing its national legislation
to prepare for the ratification of the treaty.
The knowledge-based global economy has
revolutionized the nature of trade, finance,
employment, migration, the environment and social
systems, as well as the concept and application of
governance.
Namibia, like other countries of the South,
expects tangible results from the International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Mexico. It is in the interest of North-South
and South-South cooperation that additional options be
explored to mobilize financing for development.
Similarly, the fourth Ministerial Meeting of the World
Trade Organization, in Doha, Qatar, could pave the
way to an equitable international trading system that is
mutually beneficial to all countries, provided that
political will prevails.
The World Summit on Sustainable Development,
to be held in Johannesburg, South Africa, next year
should galvanize momentum for the full
implementation of Agenda 21, in particular the
principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
Desertification, land erosion and land degradation
should be given due and appropriate consideration.
Africa has recently taken an important step
towards greater unity and cohesion with the
transformation of the Organization of African Unity
into the African Union. This momentous step would
bring about closer integration of the continent and
would make Africa more competitive in an
increasingly global market. Furthermore, the heads of
State and Government adopted the New African
Initiative, now the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development, whose primary objective is the
eradication of poverty through sustained economic
growth and sustainable development. We call on the
international community to support and assist African
countries in the implementation of this New
Partnership.
Let me stress that the initiatives undertaken by
Japan, the People’s Republic of China, the United
States, under the third Tokyo International Conference
on African Development, the China-Africa Forum and
the African Growth and Opportunity Act respectively
can complement the efforts of African countries for
sustained economic growth.
We congratulate the people of East Timor on their
struggle for independence and on conducting
successful elections for their first Constituent
Assembly. We commend the United Nations for its
important role in East Timor. We wish the people of
East Timor every success in the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of their country. We call on the
international community to be generous in its support
of the East Timorese people in this most challenging
phase of their nationhood.
The eleventh of November this year marks 26
years of the independence of the Republic of Angola.
But for more than a quarter of a century, the people of
Angola have endured a brutal and devastating war.
They have suffered horrendous terrorist attacks against
civilian targets, including most recently attacks on a
passenger train, on school buses, the kidnapping of
schoolchildren, attacks on hospitals and the wanton
destruction of infrastructure; all at the hands of
UNITA. Tens of thousands of innocent men, women
and children have been killed. Their agricultural fields
are infested with landmines. Angola has acquired the
dubious distinction of having the largest number of
amputees and the greatest number of landmines. This is
not right; it cannot be right. These heinous atrocities
committed by UNITA, as well as that group’s
consistent record of duplicity and always negotiating in
bad faith, compelled SADC, in 1998, to declare
Savimbi, UNITA’s leader, a war criminal.
For its part, having determined convincingly that
UNITA is responsible for the violations of the Lusaka
Protocol and the resumption of the war, the United
Nations Security Council imposed sanctions against
UNITA. While sanctions have been effective in many
important respects, more concrete measures need to be
taken by Member States to strengthen them and make
them even more effective. African countries have a
bigger and special obligation in this regard. Sanctions
must be tightened in those areas identified by the
Monitoring Mechanism on Sanctions against UNITA,
such as the freezing of UNITA assets and bank
accounts and the closing down of UNITA
representations abroad, which now operate under
misleading and innocuous sounding appellations but
which in fact continue to promote UNITA activities
and advocate its wicked cause. The international
community should respond more decisively to repeated
defiance of Security Council resolutions by UNITA. By
acting more resolutely against UNITA, the
31

international community will help end the prolonged
suffering, tears and agony of the people of Angola.
Regarding the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Namibia is encouraged by the progress made in
the implementation of the Lusaka Ceasefire
Agreement. The ceasefire has been holding so far
despite some violations and infringements, particularly
in the eastern part of the country. The continued
occupation by forces of aggression has created
deplorable human suffering and large-scale human
rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. Namibia, once again wishes to remind the
Members of the United Nations that a cardinal
principle of the Charter of this Organization has been
violated with impunity, when some of its Members
committed an act of naked aggression against the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is even more
deplorable when the aggressor countries are engaged in
the ruthless exploitation and plundering of the natural
resources of the Congo. We reiterate here that
aggression should be rejected and condemned
whenever and wherever it occurs. There should be no
double standards when it comes to the violation of the
principles of the Charter with regard to aggression. The
international community should also assist the people
of the Congo in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
their country.
Now it is time for the Security Council to
implement its decisions without further delay and
approve the personnel for phase III of the deployment
of the United Nations Organization Mission in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), taking
fully into account the demands and requirements of
that peacekeeping operation — the size of the country
and the non-existence of the infrastructure. The United
Nations and the international community cannot fail
the people of the Congo this time around.
We are gratified by the increased efforts of the
Security Council and the serious attention paid by the
international community to Sierra Leone, which have
now started to pay off. The international community
should remain actively engaged and continue to assist
with the peace-building and reconstruction of the
peace-loving people of Sierra Leone.
History teaches us that no administrative Power
has relinquished authority as a gesture of good will,
that no peace process has been problem-free and that
parties to a conflict, naturally, will have differences.
This notwithstanding, however, no amount of
difficulties can justify abandonment of the United
Nations Settlement Plan for Western Sahara. Any
attempt to legitimize, in whatever form or shape, the
present situation in Western Sahara is unjustifiable and
is a departure from the United Nations Declaration on
decolonization and relevant General Assembly and
Security Council resolutions. Ignoring the legitimate
aspirations of the brave Sahrawi people will only delay
durable peace in the region. A departure from the
United Nations Settlement Plan will deny the Sahrawi
people their inalienable right to self-determination and
independence. Namibia will reject and will dissociate
itself from any plan, informal or otherwise, to deny the
Sahrawi people their legitimate right to express
themselves through a free, fair and impartial
referendum for self-determination.
No people can maintain peace and security or
build its prosperity on the helplessness and abject
misery of others, particularly their neighbours. The
people of Palestine and, indeed, the international
community are crying out for the establishment of the
Palestinian State. They are crying out for peace
between Palestine and the State of Israel. It is now time
to heed this call. The legitimate right of the people of
Palestine to self-determination and the establishment of
an independent State of their own cannot be denied and
cannot be compromised. A Palestinian State will be in
the best interests of Israel, of security and peace, of the
entire Middle East and of the whole world. The basis
for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East remains
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338
(1973).
Let us make sustained and determined collective
efforts to promote peace and development in all corners
of the world, so that our children and grandchildren can
live in a peaceful world.



"
56,2001,DMA,"﻿I am pleased and
honoured to address the Assembly on behalf of the
Government and the people of the Commonwealth of
Dominica. I wish to extend my congratulations to you,
Sir, and your country, the Republic of Korea, on your
election to the high office of President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly, confident that your
proven diplomatic skills will serve you well in guiding
the affairs of the General Assembly with efficiency and
purpose. Your immediate predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri, is most deserving of our thanks and
appreciation for the very able manner in which he
presided over the Millennium Summit and the fifty-
fifth session of the General Assembly. Permit me
further to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, on his election to a second term and on the
award of the Nobel Peace Prize to him and the United
Nations.
This general debate is being conducted in unusual
circumstances. The horrendous terrorist acts of 11
September 2001 have altered the lives of many in ways
traumatic and fundamentally tragic. I must again
extend deepest condolences and pledge the full support
and solidarity of the Government and the people of the
Commonwealth of Dominica to the Government and
the people of the United States of America and to all
bereaved families, including those who lost their loved
ones on flight 587.
The ripple effects of those acts have resonated in
locations far removed from New York City,
Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania, aggravating
economic and social conditions and seriously
disrupting efforts aimed at meeting the many
challenges confronting the United Nations and the
international community. In short, in one way or
another and to a lesser or greater degree, we are all
victims of those acts of terrorism that were visited
upon the United States of America two months ago.
The Commonwealth of Dominica condemns,
without reservation, what is undoubtedly the worst
terrorist act of our times. We are in strong accord with
the sentiments and mandates contained in Security
Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001) and
General Assembly resolution 56/1, all of which call
2

upon the international community to take unified and
cooperative action to prevent and eradicate acts of
terrorism. We understand the need for the exercise of
the right of self-defence in pursuit of those objectives,
and we support the actions being taken to bring justice
to the perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of the
terrorist acts of 11 September 2001.
Cognizant of the importance of international
cooperation in the fight against terrorism, Dominica
has proceeded to establish a task force to put in place
the necessary legislative and executive measures for
the implementation of Security Council resolution 1373
(2001). But to be effective beyond the immediate
crisis, counter-terrorism measures, mechanisms and
strategies must be sustained through a comprehensive
approach that seeks to create and strengthen, through
the United Nations, a legal framework against
international terrorism, complemented by strenuous
efforts aimed at improving the social and economic
conditions which adversely affect the poor and
dispossessed.
Beyond the immediate peace and security issues
affected by the events of 11 September, there has been
a considerable impact on the global economy, which
has been thrown into an accelerated decline, with
consequences that are particularly disturbing for small
developing countries like the Commonwealth of
Dominica. In the Caribbean there is strong evidence of
damage to vital sectors of our economy, such as
tourism, financial services and agriculture. The actual
and projected losses of jobs in the region are in the
thousands, and for those countries that were already
experiencing fiscal pressures the prospect of higher
unemployment and decreased revenues is daunting.
Complicating the problem is the great concern
that in the fight against terrorism and in the drive to
enforce counter-terrorism measures, certain areas in
which developing countries in the Caribbean region
have a competitive advantage, such as the financial
services sector, may be subjected to inordinate pressure
and be unfairly targeted and linked to illegal activities
such as money-laundering. We are convinced that well-
regulated, competitive tax jurisdictions should be
treated separately and distinctly from illegal activities
such as money-laundering. The Commonwealth of
Dominica remains firmly committed to the struggle
against international terrorism to the same extent that
we strive to ensure that our financial services sector, a
major pillar of our economic diversification thrust,
does not provide support to the perpetrators of criminal
activity in the financing of terrorism.
The current effort against international terrorism
is important, and our focus on that activity is
warranted. There are, however, other dimensions of the
global agenda which should command the attention of
the international community and the United Nations.
They cannot be relegated to the back burner of our
concerns. They comprise a wide range of economic,
social, political and humanitarian problems faced on a
daily basis and, for the most part, by the poor and
disadvantaged of the world. Indeed, some of them are
likely to be exacerbated by the fight against terrorism,
and their successful resolution will continue to be the
greatest challenge of the United Nations and the
international community.
At the Millennium Summit last year there was
general agreement on the issues needing urgent
attention and the goals to be achieved. One year later
those goals appear to be as far from being realized as
ever. Commitment appears to be lacking on all fronts.
The objective of a 50 per cent reduction in the number
of persons living in poverty worldwide by the year
2015 suffers from the perennially tepid effort to deal
with the root causes of poverty. Contributions from the
industrial countries are woefully inadequate, and the
required adjustment of the strategies of the
international financial institutions is slow in coming.
The outcome is less than desirable in creating and
maintaining an enabling environment for the more
effective management of projects geared to poverty
reduction.
That lack of commitment is evident in other
areas. A year after the Millennium Summit and six
months after the General Assembly special session on
HIV/AIDS, the international community seems to have
lost interest in a crisis that the Secretary-General
labelled the greatest public health challenge of our
times. As front-page news, HIV/AIDS claimed
attention for only a short time after the special session,
but the disease claimed millions of lives last year and
created millions of orphans in sub-Saharan Africa,
which continues to have the highest rates of infection.
The Caribbean region ranks a close second.
The Global Fund for AIDS and Health proposed
by the Secretary-General is clearly not realizing its
spending target of $7 billion to $10 billion, and will not
be able to achieve the stated goal of reversing the
3

spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015, as declared by world
leaders at the Millennium Summit. The majority of
people infected with HIV/AIDS live in the developing
world and the high incidence of HIV/AIDS infection is
considered a function of poverty. The circularity of the
problem has tremendous implications for economic
development, poverty reduction and efforts to raise
living standards in developing countries. The accepted
premise is that international development cooperation
plays a vital role in the development of the mechanisms
necessary for enhancing the trade competitiveness of
developing countries, strengthening financial systems,
and developing human resources, but that role is
clearly undermined by the declining trend in official
development assistance (ODA).
Once again we see the lack of commitment to the
fulfilment of a stated goal. It is generally accepted that
were industrialized countries to meet their promised
official development assistance of 0.7 per cent of gross
national product (GNP), the countries of the
developing world would be much nearer to solving
many of the problems with which they are plagued. As
a substitute for the failed promise, developing
countries have been told to place greater reliance on
foreign direct investment, most of which bypasses the
most needy and the smallest economies. The
Commonwealth of Dominica falls into that category of
States for which official development assistance is
vitally critical to the development of their economies.
That is why the Commonwealth of Dominica and other
States in the region attach such importance to the
convening of the International Conference on
Financing for Development, which will be held in
Mexico from 18 to 22 March 2002. Given the changing
global realities that are impacting adversely on the
economies of developing States, the Conference will
provide an opportunity for us to assess the impact of
declining official development assistance and for
creating new mechanisms for financing development.
Over the past several years and in many different
forums, particularly in the World Trade Organization
(WTO), we have been calling for the formal
recognition of the special problems facing small
vulnerable economies. We fear that without such
recognition it will be impossible for small States to be
fully integrated into the multilateral trading system of
the globalized world. Our fears have been confirmed
both by the generally poor performance of small States
under WTO arrangements and by a very authoritative
report by the World Bank and Commonwealth
Secretariat on the issue of smallness and vulnerability.
The unique characteristics of small vulnerable
economies, which have been articulated in numerous
studies, give a clear indication of the challenges that
these economies face in improving their development
prospects and in adjusting to liberalization and
globalization. Many of these economies are at a
crossroads. The reality is that trade preferences are
eroding; official flows are declining, while historical
ties with former partners in development are fading. It
is therefore imperative that in order to prevent further
marginalization of small economies, steps must be
taken in the multilateral trading system and elsewhere
to address the concerns of those economies and to
ensure their growth and development.
The exclusion of the Republic of China on
Taiwan from membership of the United Nations makes
little sense in today’s world of globalization and
interdependence, particularly in light of the fact that
this sovereign State, with a democratically elected
Government, is the world’s seventeenth largest
economy, the fifteenth largest in international trade, the
eighth largest foreign investor, the fourth largest in
terms of foreign exchange reserves, and the third
largest exporter of information technology (IT)
products. The Commonwealth of Dominica intends no
interference in the internal affairs of any Member
State, nor can such interpretation be validly applied to
our action. Our plea is a simple call for justice for the
23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan
and an appeal for the recognition of their right to be
treated in international affairs no differently from
citizens of any other country.
The eleventh of September 2001 will undoubtedly
be remembered for the horrifying nature of the terrorist
acts, the magnitude of the senseless destruction of lives
and property and the forced recognition of our common
vulnerability. But the heroism, the extraordinary
fortitude and selflessness of ordinary men and women,
and the demonstrated triumph of the human spirit over
the worst manifestation of evil, inspire us to hope that
with dedicated commitment we can create for all
mankind a world that is measurably better than that
which we have today. The time to begin is now.




"
56,2001,SWE,"﻿Let me start by
congratulating the United Nations and its Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on being awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize. This is an extremely well-deserved award
to a unique Organization and a unique Secretary-
General.
Let me also take this opportunity to express my
sincere condolences to the families of the victims of
yesterday’s tragedy near John F. Kennedy Airport.
We are all going through days of sorrow and
anger: sorrow for human suffering, for the loss of
human lives and for loss of security; anger, because
terrorists hit innocent people and because terror is
targeted at openness and democracy and threatens our
common security and welfare.
Seldom has the international community been
challenged as it was through the terrorist acts of 11
September. The United Nations rose to the challenge
and took the lead in the struggle against international
terrorism. Seldom have we — the peoples of the United
Nations — shown such a strong common reaction and
unity. Sweden stands wholeheartedly by the United
Nations in its call to fight terrorism, and we express
our solidarity with the American people and
Government at this difficult time.
We have now three immediate tasks. First, all
nations have to take action against terrorism, as stated
in Security Council resolution 1373 (2001): action
against the financing, planning and execution of
terrorist acts; and action that makes it clear to those
responsible for terror that they will be punished for
their acts.
We support the right of the United States
Government to self-defence, in accordance with
international law. We emphasize the central role of the
Security Council.
Secondly, we must assist the people of
Afghanistan in their immediate needs. The Afghan
people have suffered war, natural disasters and
oppression for decades. They are held hostage by an
illegitimate regime. Women and children are
systematically abused. Women are denied health care
and work; girls are practically denied education; and
their freedom is heavily restricted. Human rights do not
exist under Taliban rule. It is crucial that in all cities
now liberated from the Taliban human rights and law
and order be guaranteed.
The humanitarian situation facing the people of
Afghanistan is acute. The United Nations and all its
Member States must increase their efforts to meet the
needs of the Afghan population. Closed borders must
be opened immediately, both for refugees who seek
asylum and for the secure transport of emergency
supplies.
Thirdly, we must assist the people of Afghanistan
in the reconstruction of their country. The restoration
of this ravaged nation to a state of peaceful coexistence
must involve a political process leading to a
representative government that respects human rights
and fosters democratic development. The role,
protection and participation of women must be high on
every policy agenda.
While addressing these immediate tasks, we must
not lose sight of our long-term agenda.
A year ago, here in New York, heads of State and
Government from 147 countries adopted the
Millennium Declaration. Their message was clear: only
by working together can we meet the challenges of
globalization.
33

Today we need to build coalitions and to join
forces, not only against international terrorism, but also
to fight other global problems. We need to join forces
in the fight for global justice. Globalization and
openness make people aware of what they have, and of
what they lack. People wish to participate. People wish
to share the benefits of development. This is positive
and represents a challenge to the international
community’s ability to narrow the gap between rich
and poor.
Globalization creates wealth, but that wealth must
be more equally distributed. Today, more than one
billion people live in absolute poverty. The Millennium
Summit pledged to halve poverty by the year 2015.
This is a welcome commitment, but it is still not
enough. Political efforts should be combined with
economic, technical and scientific progress.
Development cooperation, trade and agricultural
policies must aim at poverty eradication. The
instruments are there, and the possibilities today are
better than ever before, but we, the Governments, need
to show courage and political will. We must provide
hope of freedom for the oppressed, education for the
illiterate, food for the hungry, health care for the sick
and equality for women.
Increased official development assistance is
therefore crucial. Sweden is one of the few countries
meeting the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of
gross national income in development aid. I urge all
developed countries, in particular the big economic
Powers, to make real progress towards achieving this
goal.
The poorer countries must be integrated into the
world economy, and the new United Nations road map
is a concrete and welcome step in this direction. The
International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held in Mexico, and the World
Summit on Sustainable Development, to be held in
Johannesburg — in which the Swedish Prime Minister,
Mr. Göran Persson, will participate — could be the
starting points for new partnership arrangements
between Government institutions, civil society and the
private sector — a partnership for global justice.
HIV/AIDS is one of the greatest threats to
humanity in our time. In some countries, large parts of
entire generations fall victim to the disease. Millions of
children are orphaned. Economic progress is hampered,
and development opportunities are lost. All Member
States must show strong political and financial
commitment and solidarity. Sweden welcomes the new
global fund to fight HIV/AIDS and will contribute $60
million over the next three years to the fund.
A new round of broad negotiations in the World
Trade Organization (WTO) can make an important
contribution to worldwide growth and development.
But the interests and concerns of the developing
countries must be properly addressed. Every effort
must be made to liberalize trade. The example set by
the European Union — to open its market to
“everything but arms” — should be followed by others.
Developing countries should receive support in
building their capacity to fully integrate into the world
trading system and the global economy.
The global responsibility in terms of providing
more resources and greater market access to
developing countries is clear. But the main
responsibility for development rests with the
Governments and peoples in developing countries.
Good governance and sound national policies are
prerequisites for sustained development and poverty
reduction.
We need to join forces in the struggle for human
rights and democracy. When rights are respected, when
voices are heard, when society is tolerant, society also
becomes safer for all.
Violations of human rights threaten the security
and well-being not only of the individual but also of
society, and they cause tensions and conflicts.
Sustainable development and political stability can be
built only on respect for universal and indivisible
human rights and on democratic development.
Discrimination in any form is unacceptable and
incompatible with these fundamental principles. It is
the responsibility of every Government to safeguard
equal rights and opportunities for men and women, as
well as the rights of the child.
Those guilty of human rights violations and
crimes against humanity should never find refuge
behind national borders. The transfer of Mr. Milosevic
to the International Tribunal demonstrates the resolve
of the international community to act against impunity.
It carries great symbolic value and will contribute to
the process of reconciliation.
The establishment of the International Criminal
Court will strengthen our ability to try suspected
34

violators of international and humanitarian law. It is a
matter of the highest priority to have the Court
operational promptly, and I urge those States which
have not yet done so to ratify the Rome Statute.
Sweden also welcomes the initiative by the
Secretary-General to involve global business in
promoting human rights through the Global Compact.
We need to join forces to prevent violent
conflicts. We need to work against hatred and suspicion
between peoples and to stimulate a dialogue between
and within cultures. Preventing violent conflict is a
primary obligation of Member States under the United
Nations Charter, but it took us half a century to start
working towards this goal systematically. We now have
a better understanding of the complex root causes of
conflicts. The responsibility of preventing conflict
ultimately rests on every Government. Successful long-
term prevention cannot be imposed from the outside,
but the local parties should be encouraged and assisted
in containing an emerging conflict.
The Secretary-General’s report on conflict
prevention is a very valuable contribution to the
development of a global strategy. I urge all Member
States to take an active part in its follow-up.
A core task of the United Nations is to effectively
manage conflicts where prevention fails. It is the
United Nations that provides the legal foundation for
global action. Sweden therefore strongly supports the
process that the Brahimi report has set in motion. But
we, the Member States, have yet to provide the United
Nations with the necessary resources to strengthen its
capacities in the area of peace operations.
The Secretary-General’s efforts to strengthen the
ties between the United Nations and regional
organizations in the areas of conflict prevention and
peace-building are most welcome.
Cooperation with the United Nations is essential
in developing the European Union’s conflict-
prevention and crisis-management capabilities. In
Göteborg last June the Union adopted a framework for
increased interaction, so that European Union
capacities can provide real added value for the United
Nations.
We need to join forces for peace in the Middle
East. Our aim must be two States, Israel and Palestine,
with secure and recognized borders. The basis is
international law and the Security Council resolutions.
The situation has deteriorated in the past year, despite
strong efforts by the United Nations, the United States,
the European Union, Russia and others. A further
escalation must be avoided. Israel must withdraw from
the occupied territories, cease the settlements policy
and put an end to the extrajudicial executions. The
Palestinians must do everything in their power to stop
the attacks against innocent civilians. Sweden strongly
supports the recommendations of the Mitchell report,
including a monitoring mechanism, for an end to
violence and a revival of the peace process.
We must join forces for multilateral disarmament.
A world free from weapons of mass destruction would
be a much safer world. Multilateral agreements
contribute to security for the individual. They have
produced impressive results — chemical and biological
weapons have been totally banned. Still, however,
many challenges remain.
Three years ago, Sweden helped launch the New
Agenda Coalition — a group of States concerned with
the lack of progress in nuclear disarmament and
sharing a vision of a nuclear-weapon-free world. In our
case, the initiative was rooted in the firm belief that
both global and national security depend on
multilateral frameworks and platforms.
Last year, the 187 States parties to the Non-
Proliferation Treaty (NPT) adopted by consensus a
road map towards nuclear disarmament. Based on the
undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States to fully
eliminate their nuclear arsenals, a 12-step action plan
was agreed on. This promising outcome was also
confirmed by the General Assembly. All States parties
have pledged to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world
under strict and effective international control. I
strongly urge the four States remaining outside the
Treaty to sign and ratify it.
We have a number of important instruments to
prevent testing, to ban production of weapons material
and to improve verification. The Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, a fissile material cut-off
treaty and the Additional Protocol to the International
Atomic Energy Agency safeguards agreement pave the
way for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
Now it is now time to concentrate on their
implementation.
The United States plans for a strategic missile
defence system risk having a negative impact on
disarmament, non-proliferation and the whole NPT
35

process. The ongoing consultations are welcome, but
the outcome is still uncertain. We strongly believe that
the new threats of proliferation require a multilateral
response built on the already existing safety net.
Deep cuts in strategic and tactical nuclear
arsenals are long overdue and should be accompanied
by effective mechanisms of verification and
irreversibility. Such treaty agreements can never be
replaced by unilateral declarations.
Weapons of mass destruction remain a threat to
mankind. Terrorists must not be given the opportunity
to threaten us with these weapons. Now is the time to
reinforce efforts to contain proliferation.
The United Nations remains a unique global
forum. It is the one organization we can all equally
count on and turn to for security and development — as
the safeguard of our common future. The United
Nations needs to be strengthened, and it needs reform.
We need the United Nations, and the United Nations
needs us.


"
56,2001,NLD,"﻿How can anyone
stand on the smoking ashes of “ground zero” and not
be overwhelmed by disbelief, anger, and frustration?
How can anyone escape the enormity of what happened
in September or not feel compassion for all those who
have lost someone dear to them? At “ground zero” we
not only witness death and destruction, but we also see
how American values have come under siege. These
are shared values. That is why the people I represent
now stand squarely behind the United States.
14

No matter how deeply moved we may be, we
must look beyond our anger and frustration. Through
our tears, we should discover opportunity. Through our
bitterness, necessity. We must turn compassion into
solidarity, turn solidarity into common action. We need
a plan — in sum, we must turn to the United Nations.
The reaction on the part of the United Nations
from the beginning of this crisis has been prompt and
responsible. As we meet this week, we must try and
keep the momentum going. And that is precisely what
we are doing. There is something I have sensed in the
first few days of this general debate — namely,
determination — determination to use the United
Nations to the fullest, on many different fronts, as a
centre of gravity for our common actions — common
action for confronting a global threat — common
action to maintain the international order.
With regard to that common action, what have we
learned so far? Three lessons. Lesson number one: the
law must be firmly in place. There is a wealth of legal
rules to guide us in these difficult times, and more of
them are on the way. A striking example of innovative
rule-making was presented by the Security Council.
Binding under Chapter VII of the United Nations
Charter, resolution 1373 (2001) takes action not in
regard to a specific threat or breach of the peace, not
against a particular Member State, but takes action to
confront a phenomenon, a threat to our human values
and economic interests — action against unidentified
enemies. By writing new law, the Council has broken
new ground. Even more so, as it has set up the
Counter-Terrorism Committee to monitor the
implementation of its decision.
Jointly with our partners in the European Union,
we are taking the implementation of resolution 1373
(2001) very seriously. One aspect of it is especially
important to us: promoting ratification of all of the
various anti-terrorism conventions and monitoring
compliance. My country has some expertise to offer
and will gladly share it. Meanwhile, an overarching
convention against terrorism is in the works. That is
good. But we are getting bogged down over a
definition of terrorism. That is bad. Let us not forget
that it took us 20 years to produce a fairly useless
definition of aggression. The world cannot wait that
long. Besides, when terrorism stares you in the face,
you’ll know it.
In addition to rule-making, the real challenge lies
in implementation. There, we should try harder. Let me
give you one example. Just before the summer we lost
our momentum in the fight against biological warfare,
and therefore the fight against bio-terrorism as well.
The world is a scary place. Anthrax is only one motive
for retrieving that momentum. Let us resume our
efforts to turn the Biological Weapons Convention into
an instrument that can really make a difference.
The need for stepping up security is immediate,
comprehensive and self-evident. In the aftermath of 11
September, nobody would deny it. But we need to be
concerned with the downside of security as well. Parts
of our value system may come under pressure when
Governments seek to bolster public safety, and by this I
mean human rights and fundamental freedoms. As
private citizens we must be ready to make concessions
and, yes, we will be forced to relinquish some freedom
from intrusion in our private lives. But we cannot be
expected to live in a never-ending state of siege.
Wherever we have to strike a balance, we have to do so
wisely. Long ago, we drew a line beyond which we
cannot step — we cannot detract from the basic
principles of human rights. Those principles are the
true measure of our evolution and our civilization. If
we look the other way, we lose the moral high ground.
If we compromise, we lose out to those who besiege us.
What is being put to the test here is our own
value system. The core notion of that system is
tolerance. Tolerance must, however, come from all
sides. Tolerance is not the equivalent of giving in to
intolerance. It does not imply that you bend at the
slightest pressure. Tolerance means that you stand up to
be counted, that you draw a line in the sand when your
basic values are challenged. That is lesson number one.
Lesson number two: there are “black holes” in the
international order: failing States. We knew they were
there all along, but we have never been quite sure how
to deal with them. Why should we care about failing
States? For several reasons. Look at the avalanche of
drugs, drug-money, weapons, and warlords spilling out
of Afghanistan. Look at the blood diamonds streaming
out of Africa. Think of how failing States attract
parasites and how they turn into breeding grounds for
terrorism, a haven for international crime. Think of
peace and security, too; of how faltering countries
become a liability to their own people; of how they
flaunt the rules of the game and become a liability to
the whole neighbourhood.
15

How do we deal with failing States? That
question has never been answered in a systematic
manner. Any answer begins by recognition on the part
of the Member States of this Organization that failing
States are a problem. Indeed, it may turn out to be the
most pernicious problem of the new century. From that
point on, we need to build a strategy, and do so
together, within the framework of this Organization.
What are we aiming at? How ambitious are we?
Can we get in early to prevent failing States from
failing? Are there any early warning signals to look out
for? If we see those signals, do we have the means to
act? And the political will? Once States are failing, do
we try and fix them? Do we settle for ending the
fighting, wherever fighting is going on? Or do we limit
ourselves to humanitarian aid? These are all difficult
questions.
My belief is that outside intervention only goes so
far. I do not believe that massive injections of aid are
the right answer to failing States. For one thing, donors
are reluctant to poor money down a black hole. But
more importantly: the solution should not come from
the outside, but rather from the inside. Even in the
poorest country we will find well-educated citizens just
as committed to building better lives for their children
as in the rest of the world. They need a helping hand in
building good governance and a viable civil society.
Yet, ownership is paramount. Failing States, too, have
the capacity to fix themselves. Indeed, only if they fix
themselves will they no longer fail. Our role should be
to help galvanize and to enable those capacities.
Lesson number three: the United Nations should
be doing the right things. As of today the Northern
Alliance has entered the city of Kabul. That fact makes
it even more imperative that we speak about
Afghanistan in the United Nations.
Consensus is growing that in post-Taliban
Afghanistan, the United Nations should play a central
role. I certainly support that view. But a central role in
what? For make no mistake: once the bombing stops,
the difficulties are still overwhelming. The country is
not only rugged and ruined, but also the size of Central
Europe and packed with landmines. Factional fighting
is bound to continue. The United Nations can do a lot,
but we need to beware of sending the United Nations
on an impossible mission. Instead of calling on the
United Nations for functions where it is weak, let us
call on the United Nations for functions where it is
strong.
For example, take governance, a major worry to
us all. Much as we seek to avoid it, a political vacuum
is a realistic prospect, given that tribal conflict in
Afghanistan is as old as the country’s history. Afghans
are a proud people. Hostility towards outside
intervention is strong. The country needs to be
governed from within. We may be looking both for a
broad-based interim Government and for a stable
permanent structure. Without rushing to elections, we
need to be satisfied that such a political settlement is
supported by the population. In the process, the United
Nations might play a central role as a catalyst and as an
adviser, but not as a governor. Afghanistan is not East
Timor. It is important, too, that any settlement be
supported by the neighbouring States and by a Security
Council resolution.
As regards security: in the absence of a functional
national army, transitional military arrangements are
essential. They are essential to create a secure
environment enabling reconstruction to begin and
refugees to return home. Choosing the right format is
critical. A conventional United Nations peacekeeping
operation may not be a good idea — certainly not for
the country as a whole. Supplying peacekeepers is still
voluntary. Realistically, the troop levels needed for a
country this size would almost certainly not be
attained. Bosnia has taught us the hard lesson of the
price we pay when we send in a United Nations force
that is below par. We should be careful to avoid another
Somalia. Different formats for security arrangements
are possible, and we should reflect on them as a whole.
In a previous context, Ambassador Brahimi has offered
us a wide spectrum of lessons learned about United
Nations peacekeeping. We should take them to heart.
Now, as the Special Representative, he deserves all the
support he needs from us.
Concerning mine clearance: Afghanistan has
more landmines than any other country in the world.
The country cannot possibly get back on its feet as long
as those mines are there. We have to get rid of them,
and the United Nations can help us to do that. We must
pay the bills.
As to reconstruction: we should capitalize on
where the United Nations is uniquely positioned either
to deploy operations in the field or to coordinate those
of others. Let us not limit our view to the part of the
16

United Nations here in New York, but rather broaden it
to the entire United Nations system, including the
Dumbarton Oaks and Bretton Woods institutions. We
need to bring the full weight of that system to bear on
the future of Afghanistan. I am speaking of the World
Health Organization and the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, of the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
and the United Nations Drug Control Programme, of
the International Labour Organization and the World
Food Programme, of the United Nations Development
Programme and the World Bank. There is no need to
set up a whole new mechanism. The Afghanistan
Support Group is fully entrenched, and we should use
it.
Especially now, caught in the crossfire, the
Afghan people are not to be envied. Their plight will
not be over once the guns are silent. Food stocks,
health care, housing, utilities, schooling, agriculture —
the list of concerns is a long one. But all of us need to
push that agenda. We may not be part of the problem of
Afghanistan, but we must be part of the solution.
Yet again, reconstruction cannot be imposed upon
a nation. Here, too, a sustainable recovery needs to
come from within. All the men, and especially the
women of Afghanistan, must once again become the
makers of their own fate and future. The answer lies
with them.
The United Nations is not merely “an ineffective
acronym”, as a misguided message on the Internet
would have you believe. For global issues, multilateral
cooperation is the only answer. Multilateralism is
solidarity worked into a plan. As I said, the reaction by
the United Nations system in the aftermath of 11
September has been prompt and responsible. In order
to maintain that level of performance, we, the Member
States, will have to show the stamina, support and
commitment to make it happen. Our track record is not
impeccable. The United Nations can go no faster than
we will let it, which means we have to make it work.
This also means we have to provide it with all the
resources, and the political will, to give it the push and
punch we need.

"
56,2001,GAB,"﻿
I would like to begin by congratulating the President
on his outstanding election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at this session. His election reflects
the recognition by the international community of the
place and the role that the Republic of Korea, a great
friend of Gabon, plays in the world and particularly in
Asia. I would like to assure him of our full cooperation
during his period of office.
To his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland,
I express the satisfaction of my delegation for the
excellent work done in the course of the last session.
And to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, I
would like to reaffirm the highest appreciation of the
Government and the head of State of Gabon, His
Excellency El Hadj Omar Bongo, for the dedication
and determination with which he has endeavoured to
make a reality of the ideals of peace, justice and
welfare contained in the United Nations Charter. The
Nobel Peace Prize, which has just been awarded to him
as well as to the United Nations, is eloquent testimony
to the work being done by the United Nations system to
promote peace and build a more prosperous world. He
can rest assured of Gabon’s support for his efforts in
the service of the United Nations.
It is little more than a year ago that the heads of
State and Government of the Member States of the
United Nations met here in New York at the historic
Millennium Summit. On that occasion, they laid down
the guidelines for the future work of the international
community and reaffirmed their commitment to the
purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of our
Organization. The Millennium Summit thus enabled
our nations to renew their commitment to act in unity
and solidarity in order to take up the numerous
challenges facing the world.
The tragedy which took place on 11 September
2001 in the United States of America has, more than
ever, strengthened our determination to combat
international terrorism. We must put an end to it by all
possible means — military, diplomatic and political. It
is for this reason that Gabon unreservedly supports
Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373
(2001) as well as the adoption of a comprehensive
convention on terrorism.
There is no possible doubt that the coalition
which has been created will be victorious in the fight
against terrorism. In this surge of solidarity, the
international community must, in parallel, find
appropriate responses to the world problems that can
serve as a pretext for certain radical groups. There is an
urgent need to act to find solutions to the conflicts and
economic and social problems of our time.
31

As far as armed conflicts are concerned, we are
convinced that if illicit trafficking in small arms and
light weapons could be ended, it would be easier to
arrive at a prompt and lasting settlement. The
implementation by everyone of the recommendations
of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, held
here in New York last July, would enable us to reach
that goal.
Faithful to the commitment of President Omar
Bongo, Gabon remains committed to and involved in
efforts to restore peace in the world, particularly in
Africa. Here, I would like to express our satisfaction at
the return of peace to Congo (Brazzaville) following a
national dialogue involving all parties, under the
auspices of the international mediator. The stability
which has been restored to this brother country has
made possible the voluntary return of the numerous
Congolese refugees from my country to their homes
since August, thanks to excellent cooperation between
the High Commissioner for Refugees, the Gabonese
authorities and the Congolese authorities. Similarly, we
welcome the significant progress that has been made in
the Burundi peace process, which on 1 November 2001
culminated in the establishment of a transitional
government.
I would like to pay deserved tribute to former
President Nelson Mandela for the dedication and
determination with which he conducted the process to
that important stage. For his part, the President of the
Gabonese Republic will, at the request of the members
of the Burundi Peace Initiative, pursue his efforts with
a view to consolidating the peace process in that
country.
Concerning the situation in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, we welcome the important
efforts already undertaken in establishing the United
Nations peacekeeping mission. We earnestly hope that
the Johannesburg phase will make possible the start of
an effective inter-Congolese dialogue.
The situation in the Middle East, because of the
threat it presents to international peace and security, is
also a source of deep concern. I therefore urge the
parties to resume negotiations, the only way to arrive at
a lasting peace.
At the very moment when the process of
globalization of financial markets and trade is affecting
every aspect of the life of our societies, one must
recognize that an ever-growing number of the world’s
peoples risk being marginalized if concrete measures
are not taken on their behalf. The international
community therefore needs to mobilize new and
additional resources to enable them to narrow
considerably the gap separating them from others. The
forthcoming International Conference on Financing for
Development, scheduled for March 2002 at Monterrey,
Mexico, accordingly arouses great hopes. If this
important conference is well prepared, it will help us to
satisfy these legitimate expectations.
Leaders have understood that Africa holds the
key to its own development. The creation of the
African Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development are part of this logic. Much remains to be
done for development to blossom, but the foundations
have already been laid. To achieve full success,
however, Africa needs the assistance of the United
Nations and the international community.
Another question vital to our planet’s future at the
beginning of the third millennium is that of the
protection and preservation of the environment. The
World Summit on Sustainable Development, which is
to be held in Johannesburg from 2 to 11 September
2002, will provide us a further opportunity to evaluate
the progress made in implementing policies reflecting
the commitments we undertook in Rio de Janeiro 10
years ago. What conclusions will we be able to draw as
to the implementation of Agenda 21? What chance of
success will we be prepared to give the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change and the
Kyoto Protocol, the United Nations Convention to
Combat Desertification in Those Countries
Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification,
and the Convention on Biodiversity? In other words,
what we must do is to respond more simply and
directly to the issue of the choices and concessions we
are prepared to make to be able to pass on to future
generations a preserved environment that is similar to
the heritage we ourselves received from our fathers.
Any efforts made by the countries of Africa to
ensure better economic growth will be in vain if no
large-scale effort is mounted against such diseases as
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and, not to be
forgotten, arterial hypertension, which is another of the
main causes of death in Africa. There is therefore an
urgent need to implement the United Nations
recommendations on AIDS, particularly with regard to
care, support and treatment. There is also an urgent
32

need to make operational the special Trust Fund
created for that purpose.
At a time when the United Nations, and in
particular the Security Council — the body primarily
responsible for the maintenance of peace in the
world — is increasingly called upon to take on the
numerous challenges posed by the third millennium,
the matter of reforming that body continues to be
highly relevant. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive how a
continent like Africa can be without permanent
representation on the Council.
The reality of today’s world, divided between
universalism and particular interests and identities,
clearly illustrates that humanity is still searching for
harmony and unity. That is why we are firmly
convinced that a solution to the concerns I have just
mentioned is to be found in the international
community’s promotion of the virtues of dialogue and
solidarity, which are the pillars of the new humanism.
Without respect for those values, the dream cherished
by the founders of our Organization to build a peaceful
and united world will remain a chimera. Working
towards establishing a new humanity free from
selfishness, hatred, passions and injustice must
constitute our common concern."
56,2001,LBY,"﻿At the
outset, I would like to congratulate the President on his
unanimous election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. His choice to
assume this high post is a reflection of Member States'
appreciation of him personally and their confidence in
his ability to conduct the deliberations of this session
in a manner that would enable it to reach conclusions
that would contribute to the strengthening of stability
and the promotion of development all over the world.
I would also like to seize this opportunity to
express our gratitude and appreciation to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, President of the
previous session of the Assembly, which witnessed
many activities that have gone a long way towards
responding to the common concerns of the
international community.
Our great appreciation also goes to Mr. Kofi
Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, who
continues to perform his duties with dedication and
renewed vigour, even under very difficult
9

circumstances. His re-election to a second term at the
helm of the Organization and the fact that he was
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, together with the
United Nations, this year is testimony to the
appreciation of his work and the confidence in his
ability to further enhance the role of the United Nations
and to make it more effective in facing the challenges
of the new millennium.
On 11 September, several American cities,
including the City of New York, which hosts our
Organization, were subjected to terrorist attacks to
which thousands of innocent people fell victim. Once
again I express to the people of the United States and
the families of the victims, who lost their loved ones,
my deepest sympathies. We in Libya, having been
subjected to various forms of terrorism, including State
terrorism, realize better than others the cruelty and the
depth of feelings that the American people suffered and
the psychological impact, particularly on the families
of the victims. My country has therefore condemned
those painful events, emphasizing our firm position,
which denounces terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations and calls for the eradication of this
phenomenon, which endangers the independence of
States and the lives of peoples.
We, in Libya appreciate the measures taken by
the international community to uproot terrorism,
including the number of agreements made  the most
important of which we are already party to, and the rest
of which we are in the process of acceding to.
Nevertheless, it is very evident that there is an urgent
need to take other measures to confront the challenges
posed by this phenomenon. This will necessitate
seeking and eradicating the roots of terrorism. It is also
imperative to take effective action to put an end to
terrorist practices and to eliminate all the reasons and
motives that stand behind terrorism.
Before achieving this, we must agree on a
uniform definition of terrorism to determine ways of
combating it. We cannot condemn terrorism and fight it
when it hits one country and turn a blind eye when it
hits other countries and peoples. It is also very
dangerous to link terrorism to a certain religion or
nationality, as terrorism has no nationality and no
religion. Further, it is unacceptable to label as terrorism
the struggle of peoples to protect themselves or to
attain independence while ignoring real terrorism,
which has several faces and is practised in different
ways.
Occupation, provocation and aggression against
peoples, like that against Libya in 1986, is all
terrorism. The establishment of military bases on the
territories of others is terrorism. Fleets that roam the
seas are stationed off the coasts of other States and
violate their territorial waters are forms of terrorism.
The downing of civilian aircraft, like the Libyan
aircraft that was hijacked and destroyed over Sinai in
1973, is terrorism. Mass massacres are terrorism. The
training of extreme elements in certain countries and
facilitating their arrival in other countries to carry out
criminal acts, including assassinations, as happened in
my country in 1984 and 1993, is terrorism. The
acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and the
threat of their use is terrorism. The imposition by one
State of unilateral, coercive measures against other
countries and the enactment by the same State of laws
to punish others who maintain relations with these
countries is also terrorism. Exploiting the Security
Council to impose sanctions against peoples without
any justification or evidence is terrorism. Preventing
the Council from adopting measures to protect those
who are subjected to killing and displacement
constitutes support for and encouragement of terrorism.
Due to these considerations, we believe it has
become important and necessary to take international
action to combat terrorism at all levels. We think that
such action could be effective if undertaken under the
umbrella of the United Nations, in accordance with the
purposes and principles of its Charter. My country was
among the first to act in this context when, in 1992, we
called on the Secretary-General of the United Nations
to request the convening of a special session of the
General Assembly devoted to the consideration of the
means of combating terrorism.
Today, we renew this call out of a conviction that
this is the best way to study the question of terrorism
with a view to arriving at an accurate definition of
terrorism far removed from selfish and subjective
classifications. We are also convinced that this is the
best way to deal with this phenomenon in all its
political, economic and social aspects and,
consequently, to take the necessary measures to fully
uproot it.
Every year, we gather here to review and assess
our achievements. Despite the tragic events of 11
September, we notice that the previous year witnessed
a number of important developments. The General
Assembly held more than one special session. Two
10

high-level conferences were held within the framework
of the United Nations, one of which was devoted to the
situation of the least developed countries and the other,
to our common struggle against racism and
xenophobia. In the declarations and programmes of
action resulting from these conferences, there was a
rededication and commitment to the purposes and
principles of the United Nations, aimed at maintaining
international peace and security and developing
friendly relations among States. It was also affirmed
that more efforts would be made to implement
priorities such as the promotion of development, the
provision of shelter for all, the eradication of want and
diseases, the ending of injustice and unfairness and the
uprooting of discrimination in all its forms.
The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya participated in all
these forums, and we are happy to have contributed to
their successful results. Like other Members of this
Organization, we have an interest in the establishment
of peace, the realization of justice and the support of
sustainable development. Notwithstanding all these
achievements, it is abundantly clear that there is a need
for further efforts so that we may be able to address the
additional challenges facing all Members of the United
Nations.
One such challenge is the environmental
degradation that threatens life on Earth, our common
home. Violence and armed conflicts also rage in
several regions. Millions suffer from abject poverty in
many places in developing countries. Diseases,
particularly HIV/AIDS, threaten the lives of entire
communities.
There are still those who challenge the collective
will and cling to unilaterally enacted laws, applying
them to all. Old ideological barriers have been replaced
with new barriers, including impeding access of many
developing countries to the technology necessary for
their development and advancement. Moreover, our
world is still not free of criminal activity, including the
illicit trade in small weapons and narcotics and
transnational organized crime.
The United Nations is the tool of our common
work in our efforts to face these challenges.
Undoubtedly it has made many efforts, but it could
certainly be more effective in carrying out its duties if
drastic structural reforms were made to its organs and
if new working methods were developed for its various
mechanisms. Many proposals have been submitted over
the past few years in this regard, but, unfortunately,
they did not resonate with certain Powers that care only
for their narrow selfish interests. This makes it
incumbent upon the other Members of this
Organization that have a real stake in reform to unify
their efforts and capacities to effect inevitable change,
if we want our Organization to succeed, consistent with
the spirit of the times, and to meet the needs of the
people.
For our part, we wish once again to reaffirm that
such change should be aimed at achieving the
following.
First, it must enhance and develop cooperation
among the principal organs of the United Nations, and
between these organs and other bodies and agencies of
the United Nations system, with a view to resolving
international problems in all their aspects.
Secondly, it must enhance the role of the General
Assembly, making it more effective, so that it can carry
out the functions entrusted to it by the Charter,
including contributing to the adoption of measures to
maintain international peace and security. The
Assembly should have the authority to control and to
hold accountable other United Nations organs,
including the Security Council, which should be
accountable to the Assembly.
Thirdly, it must establish a mechanism affiliated
with the General Assembly to follow up the
implementation of Assembly resolutions. We cannot
wait indefinitely for the implementation of resolutions,
most of which were adopted more than 50 years ago.
Fourthly, it must accelerate the introduction of
radical reform to the Security Council membership in
order to apply the principle of equitable geographic
distribution and thus do justice to the disadvantaged
regions in Africa, Asia and Latin America that are
under-represented in the Council. Reform should also
apply to improving the Council's working methods to
ensure transparency in its work and democracy in its
decision-making.
Fifthly, the privileges emanating from victories of
the Second World War must be withdrawn, the most
important being the right of veto, which has become
obsolete. Therefore, there is no longer any justification
for maintaining it, not only because it contravenes the
principle of the sovereign equality of States, but also
because it has been used to protect aggressors from
11

condemnation. It is also being used to prevent the
adoption of measures to protect those subjected to
aggression, killing, displacement and other acts of
genocide.
Seeking to establish peace and enhance stability
is among the major purposes of the United Nations.
This Organization certainly cannot perform all these
functions alone. Member States can establish effective
mechanisms to resolve the most intractable problems.
In this context, we in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya have
made consistent efforts to assist countries suffering
from conflicts and disputes. Talks held last June, under
the auspices of the Qadhafi Charitable Organization,
between the Government of the Philippines and the
Moro Front, led to the signature of the Tripoli Peace
Agreement, ending a bitter conflict and meeting the
aspirations of both parties for the restoration of
security and stability in southern Philippines.
We have participated effectively in various
negotiations that have resulted in the settlement of the
Ethiopia-Eritrea dispute and the conclusion of the
Arusha Agreement, ending the conflict in Burundi.
Together with other African countries, we are
intensifying our efforts to support reconciliation in
Somalia and the restoration of peace to the Democratic
Republic of the Congo on the basis of the Lusaka
Agreement, emanating from the agreement signed in
the city of Sirte in September 1999.
Currently, intensive efforts are being made to
implement the Libyan-Egyptian initiative, in
coordination with the initiative of the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development, to
achieve broad-based national reconciliation in the
Sudan so that its people can live in harmony and
stability, based on the unity and territorial integrity of
that sisterly country and equality among its people.
We take great pride in our contributions and
achievements. But above all, Libyans from all walks of
life  men and women  greatly cherish the historic
event that took place in March of this year, when
African leaders announced the establishment of the
African Union at the second Sirte summit. This was
followed by the thirty-seventh summit of the
Organization of African Unity, held last July, which
took progressive practical measures to strengthen the
fundamentals of this Union, which is an important
transformation in the history of Africa, realizing as it
did, the dream of the forefathers of a unified Africa. It
was the culmination of the efforts of the great African
leaders whose objective has always been the unity of
the continent so that it could enhance its security and
progress and build its future. It is a new phase in an
African renaissance that will eliminate rifts that divide
the continent and will establish one bloc for all
Africans, capable of confronting various challenges in
a world of large groupings.
The fact that Africa has taken all these initiatives
and steps sends a clear message to other countries of
the world that Africa fully realizes that resolving its
problems and developing its abilities is primarily the
responsibility of the Africans. Yet we must emphasize
that there will be no peace, security or stability in the
world as long as Africa suffers from problems and
disturbances. For that, the United Nations and all
countries must assist in the efforts of African countries
to establish peace throughout the continent and to
enhance security in all its corners. This requires
primarily support for Africa's dispute-settlement
mechanisms, assistance in eradicating the poverty of
millions of its people and the elimination of diseases,
particularly HIV/AIDS, which threatens the lives of
more than 30 million Africans.
Moreover, a solution must be found to the
problem of external debt, which devours most of
Africa's earnings. Moreover, an end must be put to
consequences of colonialism, the cause of Africa's
underdevelopment and the obstacle to its progress. The
only way to do justice to the peoples of Africa is for
those States that conquered their land, looted the
continent's resources and built their progress at its
expense to apologize to the peoples of Africa for these
practices and to pay them full compensation for the
losses and damages caused by colonialism.
The international community has thus far failed
to resolve the Palestinian problem, which is almost as
old as the United Nations itself. This is essentially due
to disregard of the core of the problem, which is that a
land was usurped and its people were expelled from
their homeland. Thus, Palestine remained occupied.
Most of its people became refugees in various parts of
the world, and those who stayed were made into
prisoners in their own homes, deprived of the most
basic human rights. The Palestinian people are being
subjected to the most heinous crimes committed
against any people in contemporary history. Palestinian
children and young and elderly people are assassinated,
their land is confiscated, their farms are burnt and their
12

houses are demolished to be replaced by houses of
settlers who came from various parts of the world in
pursuit of unbelievable and illogical myths.
Old and new developments of the Palestinian
question are sufficient proof that ending the suffering
of the Palestinians under occupation cannot be
achieved through plans that are never implemented. It
has also been cogently proven that the problem will not
be resolved by the resolutions that the United Nations
has been reiterating for more than five decades.
In the light of those irrefutable facts, the solution
that should be sought, and on which all efforts must
focus, lies in what my country has said before and
reaffirms now: the Palestinian people must return to
their homeland, from which they were expelled, and a
democratic, non-racist State must be established in
which all citizens are equal irrespective of religion or
ethnicity, a State similar to the one that has been
established in the Republic of South Africa. Any other
solution would be a fantasy that would serve only to
perpetuate the Palestinian tragedy.
Speaking of the situation in the eastern Arab
region, my country reaffirms its unlimited support for
sisterly Syria and Lebanon in their steadfastness in the
face of Israeli aggression. We condemn all attempts to
provoke those countries, and we uphold their right to
recover all their territories under occupation.
Turning to the current situation in Iraq, we
condemn the daily violations of Iraqi sovereignty and
the continuous aggression to which Iraq is subjected.
We call on all peace-loving countries to work towards
the lifting of the sanctions imposed on the Iraqi people
and towards putting an end to all schemes aimed at
destroying their capacities and at dividing their land.
Tireless efforts have been made in the field of
disarmament. My country is a party to most
international disarmament agreements and is in the
process of acceding to the remaining ones, including
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons
and on Their Destruction and the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. But we firmly believe that
general and complete disarmament cannot come about
without a change in current norms and in the approach
to disarmament issues. What we see today is a growing
trend towards the control of small arms and light
weapons rather than of the weapons of mass
destruction that pose a greater threat to international
peace and security and to human life.
That is why we wonder about the sharp focus on
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel
Mines and on Their Destruction, even though it
addresses only simple, limited weapons that small and
weak countries need to defend their borders against
powerful countries that possess aircraft carriers and
aeroplanes that can be refueled in the air. Why should
we not focus our efforts on the destruction of chemical
and biological weapons and of ballistic missiles? Why
are nuclear-weapon States not serious about practical
measures to destroy their nuclear stockpiles? Why are
certain countries falsely accused of acquiring weapons
of mass destruction while there is silence about the
Israelis, who, as everybody knows, possess hundreds of
nuclear warheads and other weapons of mass
destruction and conventional weapons? Moreover, Israel
continues to defy the will of the international
community, which has called on it to accede to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
and to place its nuclear facilities under the safeguards
of the International Atomic Energy Agency in order to
help ensure that the region is free of nuclear weapons.
We want the important question of disarmament
to be dealt with in a comprehensive and non-selective
manner. Efforts should be concentrated first and
foremost on the adoption of practical measures to
destroy nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.
That should apply to all those that possess such
weapons without exception; they should cease insisting
on the development of new defensive systems that
could threaten the world's strategic stability and trigger
a new arms race. Unless the matter is addressed in that
way, disarmament efforts will be meaningless; they
will remain a great fraud perpetrated on all the peoples
of the world.
During the past nine sessions of the General
Assembly, we have reviewed developments in the
dispute between my country and a number of Western
countries over the United States aeroplane that crashed
over Lockerbie. During the past two sessions, we have
focused on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya's cooperation
with the Scottish court that has been meeting in the
Netherlands since the two Libyan suspects decided
voluntarily to appear before it. On each occasion, we
have reiterated our request that the Security Council
lift the sanctions it imposed on the Libyan people,
13

because Libya has fully responded to the requirements
of Council resolutions 731 (1992), 748 (1992) and
1192 (1998). That was confirmed by the report of the
Secretary-General to the Security Council, submitted in
conformity with paragraph 16 of Security Council
resolution 883 (1993).
We are obliged once again to broach this
question, and for a valid reason: the developments of
earlier this year. As members know, on 3 May 2000 the
Scottish court began its trial of the two Libyans
suspected of being linked to the Pan Am aircraft
incident. During the trial it became very clear that the
judges were not convinced of the truth of testimony
from the three witnesses offered by the other party as
witnesses for the prosecution. The court concluded that
the principal witness in the case, Mr. Abdul Majid
Giaka, was lying, as were Tony Gauci and Edwin
Bollier. In paragraph 45 of its opinion, the court stated:
We have assessed carefully the evidence of
these three witnesses ... relating to the MST-13
timers .... All three, and notably Mr. Bollier, were
shown to be unreliable witnesses. [Their various
statements were] at times in conflict with each
other ... On some occasions, particularly in the
case of Mr. Bollier, their evidence was self-
contradictory.
It was thus fully expected that the Scottish court
would acquit both suspects for lack of evidence. But
the decision of 31 January 2001 ran counter to those
expectations. The court convicted one of the suspects,
Mr. Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi, and acquitted
the second, Mr. Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah. That
judgement came as a surprise to all political analysts
and jurists, for whom it raised many questions,
including why one of the suspects was convicted when
the two principal prosecution witnesses were proven to
have lied and when the court found the third unreliable.
How could the court's decision to convict one man and
acquit the other be explained, since they were both
suspected on the basis of the same assumptions?
The only answer to those questions is that, at the
last moment, the court departed from applying the law
and instead took a political decision. The first to
indicate this was Robert Black, an architect of the
Lockerbie court, who said that the elements of the case
against Al Megrahi were very weak. And Hans
Kˆchler, a university professor appointed by the
Secretary-General as an international observer of the
trial, issued a report dated 3 February 2001, which
included many comments, including the following.
[The Opinion] is totally incomprehensible for
any rational observer when one considers that the
indictment in its very essence was based on the
joint action of the two accused in Malta.
The Opinion of the Court is exclusively
based on circumstantial evidence and on a series
of highly problematic inferences. As to the
undersigned's knowledge, there is not one single
piece of material evidence linking the two
accused to the crime. In such a context, the guilty
verdict in regard to the first accused appears to be
arbitrary, even irrational.
...
This leads ... to the suspicion that political
considerations may have been overriding a
strictly judicial evaluation of the case.
In placing these facts before the United Nations
membership, we want to stress that the conviction
handed down by the court on 31 January 2001 was a
political decision that had nothing to do with the law.
The Libyan citizen Mr. Al Megrahi was kidnapped for
political reasons, as confirmed in resolutions and
statements adopted by a number of regional
organizations, including at the Lusaka summit of the
Organization of African Unity, the twenty-eighth
ministerial session of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference held at Bamako, and the meeting of
Foreign Ministers of the League of Arab States held at
Cairo earlier this year.
Our gratitude goes to the members of those
organizations and to others that have shown solidarity
with us from the outset for standing on the side of
right. We call on all Members of the United Nations
that support right and justice to take the necessary
action to meet the demands of those organizations. The
first is the immediate release of Mr. Al Megrahi, who
was convicted for political reasons that have nothing to
do with the law. His continued detention amounts to
hostage-taking under all relevant laws and customs.
The second element of those demands is
categorical rejection of the stubborn blockage of the
lifting of the sanctions imposed on Libya, which
ignores the provisions of paragraph 16 of Security
Council 883 (1993) and the findings of the report of the
Secretary-General in that regard. The Security Council
14

should immediately, totally and permanently lift the
sanctions imposed on Libya, in view of the fact that
Libya has met all the requirements of the relevant
Security Council resolutions, including resolution 1192
(1998). The third element is support for the legitimate
right of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to receive fair
compensation for the material and human losses it has
incurred as a result of the sanctions.




"
56,2001,LIE,"﻿Let me first join
previous speakers in expressing our heartfelt
sympathies to the host country and to the bereaved
families for the loss of their loved ones in yesterday’s
disaster.
Ever since 11 September, the fight against
terrorism in all its forms has rightfully been at the top
of the agenda of the United Nations and of other
international organizations. On behalf of the
Government of Liechtenstein, I wish to pledge our full
support for international cooperation to combat
terrorism. A quick understanding has emerged that
multilateralism and international cooperation are the
only ways to successfully tackle the challenges we are
facing. Once again, the world has looked to the United
Nations for leadership in our common fight, and once
again the United Nations has delivered. We wish to pay
tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan. He has
navigated this Organization in a most clever, capable
and visionary manner through turbulent times and
assiduously enhanced its standing in the international
arena. Right before the beginning of his second term as
Secretary-General the United Nations is a stronger and
more credible organization than ever. I wish to
congratulate the Secretary-General, and indeed the
entire Organization he heads, on being awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize. No one could be better placed to be
a voice of international legitimacy and to provide
leadership during the times ahead — and this is a
moment when leadership is most needed.
20

Both the General Assembly and the Security
Council have reacted with resolve and determination to
the attacks of 11 September. The Council took a bold
step in adopting its ground-breaking resolution 1373
(2001). We are indeed facing a new type of crisis and
the Security Council has designed a new type of
response. The delegation of Liechtenstein looks
forward to working closely with the Counter-Terrorism
Committee to fully implement the provisions of that
resolution. Given the novelty of the task, we appreciate
the difficulties and enormous workload the Committee
is facing. We also express our support for the
transparent manner and the spirit of cooperation and
dialogue which the Committee has displayed thus far in
carrying out its work. Benchmarking and best practices
are of the utmost importance in this context. High
standards of enforcement have to be developed and to
be applied uniformly to all actors, be they
Governments, banks, intermediaries, fiduciaries or
attorneys. We are committed to implementing
resolution 1373 (2001) as a whole, but will place
particular emphasis on its central aspects relating to the
financing of terrorism. We have all the necessary
instruments in place to make our contribution to
suppress and prevent the financing of terrorism.
Consequently, I signed on behalf of Liechtenstein the
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism on 2 October this year. Our common effort
can only be successful if it is focused on our true goal
of stopping financial flows to terrorists and their
organizations. We must not, however, venture into
other areas of international financing under the guise of
fighting terrorism. In this context I wish to state very
clearly that bank secrecy as practised in Liechtenstein
never has provided and never will provide protection to
terrorists or their financial transactions.
If the fight against terrorism is to be a genuinely
common effort, it must include all of us. The General
Assembly, as the only all-inclusive organ of the United
Nations, must therefore play a significant role in our
efforts. We trust that the General Assembly will assert
its rightful place as the law-making body of the United
Nations by adopting a comprehensive convention
against terrorism to fill the gaps in the existing
framework of international law dealing with specific
aspects of terrorism.
The fight against terrorism is multifaceted and the
role of the United Nations must also cover a wide
range of topics, including what is often referred to as
the root causes of terrorism. Indeed, isolating the
extremists, exposing the perversity of their agenda, and
thus preventing more misguided and disenfranchised
people from joining a cause of insanity, is the only way
our fight will be successful in the long term. Poverty,
social exclusion and marginalization, and the lack of
basic education are key areas we must address. These
are, of course, by no means new topics on the agenda
of the United Nations, but we need to do more and we
need to do better. Informed and educated policy
changes are not concessions to the evil of terrorism.
Such thinking would lead to paralysis and inaction. It
is of crucial importance that the spirit of international
cooperation, rather than being selective and short-lived,
should prevail in our work on these essential issues.
The United Nations is further challenged on the
complex relationship between terrorism and human
rights. The promotion and protection of human rights
must not fall victim to the fight against terrorism.
Human rights are not a luxury that we can afford
during good times and dispense with in times of crisis.
Rather, they are the foundation upon which all our
activities must be based. Curtailing the existing human
rights standards in the name of the fight against
terrorism would mean giving up our most fundamental
values — the very values that those who commit
terrorist attacks are out to destroy. This we must not
allow to happen. The World Conference against
Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and
Related Intolerance was concluded on 8 September. I
had the honour to attend that event in my capacity as
Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council
of Europe, which served as the regional preparatory
body for the Conference. After a most difficult and
complex process, the Conference was brought to a
successful end with probably the best achievable
outcome — the resolution of issues of both the past and
the present, and a global anti-discrimination agenda
within which we all can work.
The difficulties of the Durban Conference are
reflected in the still ongoing debate on remaining
technical, but important, details. The necessary
political will should be mustered as soon as possible so
that the message from Durban can reach people
worldwide. The events of 11 September have given
additional significance to this message, since racism
and intolerance can be both cause and consequence of
terrorism. One of our most difficult new challenges in
our fight against racism is to prevent discrimination
21

against people because of their affiliation with certain
ethnic groups.
There are those who interpret the events of 11
September as a fulfilment of a predicted clash of
civilizations. They are wrong. Those who committed
the attacks do not represent a civilization or religion;
they believe only in terror, violence and destruction.
They are just criminals. Their acts were not an attack
on a civilization; they were an attack on, and a crime
against, humanity. But, of course, nothing would serve
their intentions better than a clash of civilizations. The
United Nations is therefore challenged to prevent such
a clash. The International Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations serves as a useful reminder of what the
United Nations has always stood for.
Terrorism cannot be fought only with military
measures and international judicial cooperation. Only
by going beyond these obvious measures can we be
successful in the long term. We must change the
collective conscience and awareness of all societies
and teach our children the futility and the dangers of
resorting to violence as a means of dealing with
conflicts. Terrorists utilize the most extreme forms of
violence. Therefore, they must be effectively excluded
from society. They must be outlawed. It must be
unacceptable for terrorists to establish themselves as
political players by resorting to violence and by
indiscriminately attacking civilians.
This unified stance against terrorism must, in
turn, be accompanied by our willingness to engage in a
peaceful dialogue with those who advocate legitimate
political causes, difficult as that may seem. Only by
ensuring that communities and entities are not
oppressed, and that they are given room to voice their
concerns, can we eventually eradicate terrorism. In this
context it is important that the international community
develop mechanisms that allow for such a dialogue to
take place, based on an agreed framework and existing
standards of international law. We must not accept
terrorism as a fact of life, but believe in our collective
ability to eradicate it. That goal may seem distant or
even unrealistic, but so did the goal of eradicating
slavery in the nineteenth century and fascism in the
twentieth century. It is now up to all of us to free
ourselves from terrorism, the scourge of the twenty-
first century.



"
56,2001,BLR,"﻿The
delegation of Belarus would like to express its deepest
sympathy to the families of the victims of the plane
crash that occurred this morning in New York, as well
as to the Governments of the United States and the
Dominican Republic.
My delegation would also like to congratulate the
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session on his election to that responsible post. His
election is undoubtedly clear recognition of the
Republic of Korea's role in international affairs. We
would also like to express our gratitude to the President
of the General Assembly at the previous session,
22

Mr. Harri Holkeri. His successful presidency of the
Millennium Summit and Assembly is a clear example
of his personal talent and leadership skills.
The United Nations is entering the new century
under the leadership of Mr. Kofi Annan. His
unanimous re-election by the General Assembly to a
second five-year term came as an unequivocal
acknowledgement of great appreciation for his work as
Secretary-General. We welcome the recent well-
founded decision by the International Nobel Committee
to grant the Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations,
and to Mr. Kofi Annan personally.
The consequences of the terrorist attacks of 11
September 2001 against New York and Washington,
D.C., are as present and as painful as ever. In that
regard, our country does not consider this session of
the General Assembly just a regular event in the life of
the United Nations. For Belarus, the point is that, as
Member States, all of us must demonstrate collective
wisdom and display the collective will to make our
world less vulnerable in the face of acts of insanity that
push not only individual countries but the whole of
humanity to the very edge of a global catastrophe.
As a responsible member of the international
community, the Republic of Belarus cannot remain
indifferent to this threat. In his message to Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, the President of the Republic of
Belarus, Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka, clearly explained
the views of our country with regard to international
activities to combat terrorism:
In the present situation, the role of the United
Nations in consolidating the efforts of States in
the fight against terrorism is growing in stature.
We can achieve real success in this effort only
when the unique capabilities of the United
Nations are used, especially as regards
eradicating the root causes that generate and
support terrorism. We believe that the United
Nations should be at the centre of the efforts to
develop strategies and tactics for the measures to
be taken by the international community to
combat terrorism.
Having actively supported all the anti-terrorist
resolutions adopted by the Security Council and
General Assembly, and being party to the 12 United
Nations conventions on terrorism, Belarus welcomes
the measures aimed at defining and eradicating not
only terrorism itself but also its root causes. We firmly
support the work of the Committee established by the
Security Council under resolution 1373 (2001), and are
ready to cooperate closely with that body.
Last year, during the Millennium Summit and
Assembly, we called for the preservation of the United
Nations as a unique universal international institution
uniting all the countries of the world. When we talk
about establishing the conditions necessary for
effective implementation of the goals set out in the
Millennium Declaration we are talking about the future
of the Organization itself. We believe that the
implementation by the United Nations of the provisions
of the Millennium Declaration during the first year
after the holding of the Millennium Summit is cause
for a certain optimism. In that regard, I would like to
underscore that the Republic of Belarus has already
drafted a special governmental programme on
implementing the Millennium Declaration.
The important thing that we have come to realize
is that there is an organic link between development,
peace and security in the context of globalization. The
recent tragic events in the United States of America
reaffirmed that interdependence. Belarus welcomes the
intensive work undertaken at the United Nations in
2001 in preparation for the International Conference on
Financing for Development. We are convinced that this
forum must lay the foundation for a new international
consensus on global economic and financial issues.
Belarus believes that such a consensus should be built
while taking into consideration the specific interests
and needs of countries at different stages of social and
economic development. The overall success of the
forum will ultimately depend on the application of that
approach.
While addressing the most pressing social and
economic challenges of the modern world, we must not
weaken our focus on the area of international security
and disarmament. The statistics on military
expenditures, which have reached $800 billion per year
worldwide, are of particular concern in the present
alarming international situation. It should be noted that
our country has been pursuing a consistent policy in
the field of disarmament. We have made a significant
contribution to the consolidation and development of
international non-proliferation regimes for weapons of
mass destruction, including a reduction in the number
of such weapons and the elimination of existing
arsenals.
23

Belarus has been consistently and
comprehensively fulfilling the provisions of all nuclear
disarmament treaties to which our country is a party.
The recent concluding inspection under the Treaty on
the Elimination of Intermediate-Range and Shorter-
Range Missiles, which was carried out in Belarus in
February 2001, confirmed our country's strict
observance of all the conditions envisaged in that
document. As a nation that voluntary relinquished
possession of nuclear weapons and completely
withdrew them from its territory in 1996, Belarus is
determined to advocate the necessity of providing
legally binding guarantees to non-nuclear States,
including the elaboration of an appropriate
international convention to that end.
The Republic of Belarus is among the States that
consider the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty to be a
critical component of maintaining strategic stability.
The outcome of decades of tense negotiations in the
search for a compromise that saved the world from a
growing nuclear threat must not be dismissed. Strategic
stability is a practical imperative for each and every
State without exception. Negotiations on such an
important issue should be conducted on a multilateral,
non-bloc basis with the participation of all interested
States and in strict conformity with the provisions of
the Charter.
We welcome the efforts undertaken for the
universal prohibition of chemical weapons and support
the destruction, as soon as possible, of existing arsenals
of weapons-grade poisons, as well as the efforts to
achieve the universality of the Convention on the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. This summer
Belarus concluded its agreement with the Organization
for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on the
privileges and immunities of that organization.
We also pursue a similarly responsible and
consistent policy with regard to reducing conventional
weapons. In strict implementation of the Treaty on
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, Belarus was
among the first of the parties to that Treaty to ratify the
agreement on the adaptation of the Treaty. Ratification
by the Republic of Belarus of the Treaty on Open Skies
in 2001 is proof of our consistent policy in this field.
One important dimension of our foreign policy is
to make practical contributions to the strengthening of
regional stability, based on the principle of
comprehensive and mutually beneficial cooperation
with neighbouring countries in all areas relevant to
security and disarmament. As part of this policy,
Belarus has concluded an agreement with Lithuania on
measures for strengthening confidence and
transparency, and we are making progress towards
signing similar agreements with Ukraine and Poland.
Conflict prevention remains among the most
important issues on the agenda of the United Nations.
The events of the past year have proved that the
initiatives undertaken by the United Nations, together
with the active personal involvement of the Secretary-
General and complemented by the work of regional
organizations and individual United Nations Member
States, have been an effective  and very often the
only  solution to the escalation of conflicts in various
regions of the world.
This is the appropriate point to mention the
situation in Afghanistan, which is of particular concern
to the international community. Developments in that
country and in the region as a whole run the risk of
spiraling out of control. Military force cannot resolve
complex problems that have been building up for years.
We are convinced that the complex tensions within
Afghan society can be defused only by means of a
balanced domestic dialogue based on strict compliance
with the standards of international law.
It is essential not to weaken the intensifying
political effort to give a new impetus to the peace
process in the Middle East. There is no alternative to
the peaceful establishment of an independent
Palestinian State through political negotiations, based
on the strict observance of Security Council resolutions
already adopted and the decisions of other relevant
international forums. It is regrettable that the Security
Council was unable to reach consensus on a United
Nations presence in the region at this crucial moment.
We consider it extremely important that we continue
our efforts to settle unresolved problems on the
Lebanese track, in tandem with the complete
withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Golan Heights.
We are also concerned about the situation in
Kosovo and Macedonia as the result of aggressive
separatism and international terrorism. Here, too, we
believe that political logic must prevail over the logic
of force. On the eve of the forthcoming general
election in Kosovo, Belarus confirms its adherence to
the principle of the territorial integrity of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and supports the diplomatic
24

initiative by the Russian Federation legally to confirm
the existing national borders in the Balkans.
The situation in Africa continues to remain
unstable. We believe that the establishment of the
African Union and the further strengthening of other
African regional structures, with an effective United
Nations involvement, are important prerequisites for
the maintenance of peace and stability in that
continent. A comprehensive approach envisaging
integration of the political, economic and social
resources of the African States is of crucial importance.
Belarus supports the immediate implementation of all
the decisions taken at the Summit of the Organization
of African Unity held in Lusaka, Zambia, in July 2001.
It is important to maintain the momentum that has
been created in the political process leading to
statehood for East Timor and to its admission, as a
fully fledged member, into the world family of nations.
We must encourage the active efforts being
undertaken to continue dialogue, on the basis of
equality, between North and South Korea.
The Cyprus problem continues to be a pressing
issue. We call for the resumption of negotiations on
this question, in accordance with the provisions of the
relevant resolutions of the Security Council.
The Republic of Belarus has been increasing its
participation in major United Nations international
legal instruments in a number of strategically important
areas. These include the combat against organized
crime and drug trafficking. Belarus has signed the
United Nations Convention against Transnational
Organized Crime and its supplementary Protocol to
Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons,
Especially Women and Children, as well as the
Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land,
Sea, and Air.
Beyond that, the Republic of Belarus has become
a party to the International Convention for the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism, the Convention on the Safety of United
Nations and Associated Personnel, the Convention
relating to the Status of Refugees, the Protocol
Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The current session of the General Assembly
represents an important stage in the process of
establishing a legal framework for Belarus to join the
United Nations system of peacekeeping operations. On
1 October 2001, the Republic of Belarus signed a
memorandum of understanding with the Secretariat
regarding its participation in the United Nations
Standby Arrangements System. We see the recent visit
of representatives of the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations to Belarus to test and select Belarusian
candidates for United Nations civilian police
contingents as an important initial step in the process
of implementing this memorandum.
Of major importance in the Millennium
Declaration is the promotion by Member States of the
principles of sustainable development. It remains clear,
however, that implementation of the paradigm of
sustainable development in many developing countries
and in countries with economies in transition continues
to be confronted with major difficulties.
In this regard, we attach particular importance to
preparations for the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, to be held in Johannesburg in 2002. We
consider the Rio + 10 Summit to be an appropriate
forum for defining new approaches to the solution of
global problems and for developing new and effective
financial, institutional and legal mechanisms for their
implementation.
The current session of the General Assembly is of
fundamental importance to my country, since it will
consider issues relating to the cleanup of the
consequences of the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear
power plant. The economic, social and humanitarian
ramifications of this problem cannot be overestimated.
Suffice it to mention here just one figure: over the past
decade, Belarus has spent $12.5 billion on the cleanup
of the Chernobyl disaster. However, the people living
in the contaminated areas have not yet been able to
return to their normal way of life. There is a need
further to rally international support for my country's
efforts to mitigate and minimize the aftermath of the
Chernobyl catastrophe.
In this context, we greatly appreciate the
initiatives proposed by the Under-Secretary-General
for Humanitarian Affairs, Mr. Kenzo Oshima, to
intensify international post-Chernobyl cooperation,
including shifting its focus towards assistance for
sustainable development of the contaminated areas and
enhancing the region's human potential. The findings
and outcome of the special United Nations assessment
mission to the three most affected States earlier this
25

year are expected significantly to contribute to the
understanding of what precisely should be done in the
near future. In the course of the current session of the
General Assembly, a draft resolution entitled
Strengthening of International Cooperation and
Coordination of Efforts to Study, Mitigate and
Minimize the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster
has jointly been submitted by the Governments of
Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine. I call
upon all delegations to support it.
In his road map towards the implementation of
the United Nations Millennium Declaration, our
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, observed quite
rightly that
The international community has just emerged
from an era of commitment. It must now enter an
era of implementation. (A/56/326, para. 11)
This means that the successful implementation of
the Organization's strategy in this era of globalization
depends on us, as United Nations Member States, and
us alone. This is not only our common privilege; it is
also our common responsibility.
Belarus is confident that the United Nations and
the international community are capable of mobilizing
political will and technological and intellectual
resources for the sake of building a stable and
prosperous world.
For the Republic of Belarus, the tenth anniversary
of its independence coincided with the second
presidential elections in the history of my country. The
support of the overwhelming majority of voters for
Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka confirmed the soundness
of the democratic foundations of the Belarusian
society.
Similarly, the foreign policy of our country will
remain consistent and constructive. It will be guided
exclusively by the basic principles of the United
Nations Charter and universally recognized norms of
international law, including the aspiration for the
establishment of a world order in which the interests of
all countries, big and small, developed and developing,
in both the North and the South, are equitably taken
into account. Cooperation with all United Nations
Member States on a mutually beneficial and
constructive basis will remain the central priority for
the Republic of Belarus.



"
56,2001,ITA,"﻿I wish to congratulate the
President on his election to head the first session of the
General Assembly of the new millennium. I am certain
that his experience and commitment will enable us to
achieve the high goals that we all share. I also renew
the Italian Government’s warmest congratulations to
Secretary-General Kofi Annan on his receipt of the
Nobel Peace Prize. His appointment to a second term to
the leadership of the United Nations is both welcome
and unanimously appreciated.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belgium
addressed the General Assembly yesterday, speaking
on behalf of the European Union. Italy fully shares his
views and supports his statement.
Like our Belgian colleague and previous
speakers, I would like to express once more, on this
solemn occasion, to the Government and people of the
United States our deep solidarity following the
appalling terrorist acts perpetrated against them. We
share their suffering over the shocking loss of human
life and the sorrow of thousands of families.
25

These acts defy the most basic values of civil
coexistence. We condemn them and reaffirm our full
commitment to the fight against international terrorism,
a struggle on which the United Nations has conferred
full legitimacy. We believe that the United Nations
remains the central forum to which we must turn in
drafting a comprehensive response to terrorism.
This is why we need strict application of the full
range of measures adopted by the General Assembly
and the Security Council during the days immediately
following the 11 September attacks. Resolution 1373
(2001), in particular, must be implemented, urgently
and vigorously. I also hope that everyone shows the
necessary flexibility to allow a swift conclusion of the
negotiations on a comprehensive convention against
international terrorism.
On 7 November, by a majority of more than 90
per cent, the Italian Parliament approved the
Government’s decision to contribute ground troops,
naval forces and air units to operations against
international terrorism. This confirms my country’s
awareness that the stakes are high and proves the
robustness of our national consensus in facing this
challenge. The fight must be conducted in a targeted
manner, avoiding the loss of innocent lives, until the
objective has been fully achieved, without, however,
neglecting humanitarian assistance to the Afghan
people, both within the country and in the refugee
camps. But the problem of the political future of
Afghanistan, a problem to be solved only by the
Afghan people, must, of course, remain a high priority
in the agenda of the United Nations, together with the
objective of regional stability.
But in crafting a credible, diversified global
strategy to eradicate international terrorism, we must
also search for solutions to the most delicate regional
crises and to the global problems that loom over our
lives. These include hunger, poverty, ignorance,
inequality, underdevelopment, violation of human
rights and fundamental freedoms and threats to the
environment and health.
At the top of the list of regional crises is the
Middle East, an area physically close to Italy, and one
to which we pay close attention. Here, we are working
both in a national capacity and within the European
Union to create, as soon as possible, the conditions for
an end to the violence and a true return to negotiations
for a comprehensive, lasting peace in the region based
on the establishment of a viable and democratic State
for the Palestinians and an end to the occupation of
their territories and on Israel’s right to live in peace
and security within internationally recognized borders.
This framework should also include an ambitious
plan, like the one adopted to rebuild a devastated
Europe in the wake of World War II, for public and
private investments and inter-regional assistance
towards fostering solidarity among the region’s States
and peoples — in other words, a new Marshall Plan.
Special attention should be paid to the economic and
social growth and development of the Palestinian
population, to which Italy is fully committed and for
which it remains prepared to do more in the future.
In the Balkans, we have noted encouraging
progress despite persisting tensions. Our goal there is
to prevent destabilizing tendencies and to foster
regional cooperation and economic development,
including closer ties with the European Union.
As for the challenges of globalization, we should
first of all make the success of the World Trade
Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Doha a
primary objective. In fact, many of the global problems
I have listed can be alleviated by ensuring that the
international market economy and multilateral free
trade operate fairly and continue to foster
inclusiveness, integration and more equitable and
sustainable growth of all countries through agreed
rules. This latest WTO round should be one of growth
and development, focusing in particular on the
problems of the developing and least developed
countries.
But in order to assure a better response to
globalization’s most problematic aspects, other major
objectives must be pursued. And the universal
organization with the moral authority to meet this
challenge is the United Nations.
The first objective is the maintenance of
international peace and security. Italy’s commitment is
strong and long-standing. In fact, we are one of the top
three contributors of men and resources to peace
operations led and authorized by the United Nations. In
this light, we appreciate the reports that the Secretariat
has issued in the past two years, which suggest a vision
of peace activity as a single, three-sided concept,
encompassing conflict prevention, peacekeeping and
post-conflict peace-building.
26

Italy also values the document that the Secretary-
General submitted to Member States on the prevention
of armed conflicts, emphasizing the direct connection
between safeguarding peace and fighting
underdevelopment. In fact, no peacekeeping action can
achieve lasting results unless it is coupled with
measures to strengthen government institutions,
safeguard the human, civil and cultural rights of all
communities and rebuild the economic and social fibre
of affected areas.
The second objective is to foster development and
eradicate poverty. We must ensure that all the countries
of the world benefit from the opportunities created by
interdependencies and progress, in particular in the
areas of information and communication technology.
The global United Nations conferences of the 1990s
laid the groundwork for the definition of poverty as a
multidimensional phenomenon. It is not only
characterized by low income and consumption, but also
a lack of food, health care, schooling and
environmental stability. This is a vicious cycle that we
must break, through coordinated and integrated
initiatives. To reverse the downward spiral, we must
enhance both the material and the human dimensions of
development.
The Millennium Declaration spells out the
objectives to be attained by 2015. Italy has shown its
commitment to these goals through the shaping of its
international actions and the shouldering of its
responsibilities during the year of its G-8 presidency.
One example was the substantive outreach initiative at
the Genoa Summit, involving a meeting with five
African Heads of State and the Secretary-General to
discuss the New African Initiative and launch a global
fund to combat HIV/AIDS and other infectious
diseases.
Finally, we must continue to nurture and
strengthen development assistance and reach the goal
of having the most developed countries dedicate 0.7
per cent of their gross national product to this pursuit.
In this context, debt relief is another essential tool to
free up the necessary resources in developing countries
in order to stimulate their economies, for instance by
promoting public investment in health care and
schooling. Italy is a leader in this field by virtue of
recent laws that allow it to gradually cancel the debt of
the poorest countries.
As I said before, the United Nations has the moral
authority to take on today’s new challenges. This fact
was highlighted by the awarding of the Nobel Peace
Prize to the Secretary-General and to the Organization
as a whole. However, its structure and procedures must
keep pace with the times. Italy believes in the reform
of the United Nations, a reform that should affect all of
its bodies, including the Security Council. Let me
reiterate the need for a comprehensive reform that
addresses the relevant issues in all their aspects. Such a
reform should be designed to produce greater
efficiency, legitimacy and transparency. It should also
meet the general expectations of democracy,
universality and inclusiveness.
In addition, to create the conditions for stable
growth of prosperity and security for all humankind,
we need more effective governance of globalization.
The documents prepared by the Secretariat make great
strides in this direction. Now is the time to translate the
commitments of the Millennium Declaration into
action. Italy will support every initiative undertaken for
this purpose.
Never have we had a better opportunity to solve
our problems, yet never have we faced greater risks.
The answer does not lie in denying the reality of
interdependence and growing globalization. It is within
our ability to promote better governance of the
international system. Never before has the world had so
many human, financial and technological resources at
its disposal. The answer lies in our hands, in our
collective will.


"
56,2001,ARG,"﻿Allow
me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly. We are
especially pleased that the designation went to a
personality with such a remarkable career, a
representative of the Republic of Korea, a country that
maintains a friendly relationship and intense
cooperation with Argentina. I also wish to
acknowledge the excellent way in which the Foreign
Minister of Finland, Mr. Harri Holkeri, presided over
the Assembly at its fifty-fifth session.
I would also like to express our satisfaction at the
re-election of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for a second term. This reflects the unanimous support
of the international community for the way in which he
has decisively confronted the great challenges of peace,
the rule of law and development at this very difficult
stage of international life. The support given to him by
the Member States reflects the widespread high opinion
of his efforts and the work of the Organization, which
was confirmed by the Nobel Peace Prize, a distinction
that brings honour to those who work in the service of
the United Nations and to its clear-sighted Secretary-
General.
This distinction also comes at a moment when the
full relevance of the United Nations has become
dramatically urgent as a result of the criminal attacks
against the United States of 11 September. In the face
of those events, I wish to reiterate our solidarity and
commitment with its Government and people. It was an
attack against us all, against all humankind.
Those events have shown that terrorism can strike
at any State and that no country can fight it in isolation.
It is an international threat, and the only existing
institution with the global reach, the United Nations,
21

must confront that threat within the political and legal
framework established by the Organization.
The Millennium Declaration had already set as
one of its objectives the adoption of concerted
measures against international terrorism and the need
for all States to accede as soon as possible to all the
relevant international conventions. The adoption of
Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373
(2001) and of General Assembly resolution 56/1 shows
that the United Nations has been equal to the
circumstances, with the goal of using every means
available to counter the threat to peace and security
represented by terrorism.
The global effort against terrorism is an
imperative for the international community, one
blessed by the United Nations. Within the guidelines
approved by the Organization, all States, groups of
States or regional organizations must contribute to this
common struggle.
Argentina expresses its full commitment to the
fight against terrorism. Our nation has twice suffered
attacks of this nature, in 1992 and 1994. The memory
of those events helps us to understand the grief for
innocent victims and to say that this fight is also our
fight.
The recent Security Council and General
Assembly resolutions have been supplemented by other
instruments that reflect the will of the majority of
States to define any terrorist act, without exception, as
criminal and unjustifiable, no matter what the intended
purposes. Existing resolutions and conventions have
outlined a series of specific measures and rules to
foster judicial and police cooperation and have
criminalized many acts of terrorism, enshrining the
principle that all States have an obligation to prosecute
and punish the perpetrators.
Argentina is a party to the majority of the
international treaties in effect and is making progress
on ratifying the remainder, among them the
International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Bombings, of 1997, and the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism, of 1999. We support the conclusion of the
conventions currently under consideration that should
be finalized before the end of this year, such as the
convention on nuclear terrorism. I hope that the
negotiations on a convention of a general nature will be
successfully concluded. The existence of political
differences or different interpretations related to other
situations should not distract us from the urgent need to
develop an instrument that would encompass all
aspects of this threat.
At the level of the hemisphere, we have put into
practice the regional system of legitimate defence and
collective security established in the Inter-American
Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance. At the same time, we
have fostered the full operation of the Inter-American
Committee on Terrorism and the drafting of an inter-
American convention, that complements existing
universal conventions, as well as the convening of a
special conference on hemispheric security.
At the regional level, the countries of the
Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) are
promoting measures to enhance technical and
operational coordination, cooperation and assistance
among the various agencies entrusted with the fight
against terrorism in the field.
We must be aware that the approach to this
problem will be incomplete if we fail to recognize the
factors that nourish terrorism. In the framework of the
increasing interdependence that characterizes the
present stage of economic life, the benefits of
development reach only a few States, and the
increasing marginalization of countries and societies
that live in extreme poverty, the tragedy of neglected or
undernourished children, sickness and hunger become
more evident. This uneven economic distribution, made
even more tangible by modern communications, causes
frustration in wide sectors of the dispossessed and
creates the conditions for the outbreak of conflicts and
confrontations, on which fundamentalist movements of
various kinds are at work. This is why we need to
reaffirm here the fundamental statement made a few
years ago by Pope Paul VI: “the new name for peace is
development”.
This is a task for the international community as a
whole, in a joint effort and a spirit of solidarity. It is
wrong to minimize the importance of international
cooperation and to leave on their own those who have
problems surviving in the face of global economic
competition.
The launching of a new round of negotiations at
the World Trade Organization (WTO) could be an
important signal to control the increasingly
protectionist tendencies and to promote world
economic recovery in the short term and growth in the
22

long term. It is a signal that will also bring additional
confidence to the financial markets. Through the
launching of a new round in Qatar, the 142 member
countries of the WTO could give impetus to a process
that lays the foundations for a more equitable and
peaceful world.
The persistence of conflicts such as the one in the
Middle East is a source of tension, with a wide range of
repercussions for the region, causing legitimate
concern for the international community. The
Argentine Republic wishes to renew its expression of
support for a stable and lasting peace in the Middle
East, based on respect for the inalienable right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination and to
establish an independent State, as well as recognition
of the right of the State of Israel to live in peace within
safe and internationally recognized borders.
Violence and terrorism in any form are absolutely
unacceptable and can only exacerbate the situation.
The parties should urgently agree on a ceasefire and
begin negotiations on a final settlement, which until
recently seemed reachable.
The Secretary-General has offered us a road map
for implementing the Millennium Declaration, which
provides a responsible programme for confronting our
current serious circumstances. The principal milestones
of that road map deserve our support as a sound way
towards peace-building and strengthening our security:
the rule of law to fight terrorism with determination;
conflict prevention and the strengthening of
peacekeeping operations; the reform of sanctions
regimes in order to avoid affecting civilian
populations; the eradication of poverty and the
promotion of development; respect for fundamental
human rights throughout the world and for political and
religious plurality; and the firm rejection of any
attempt to associate certain religious creeds or
nationalities with violence or terrorism.
We also share the Secretary-General’s view of the
importance of putting an end to the culture of impunity
by bringing to trial the perpetrators of extremely
serious international crimes. We underscore the
historical importance of the establishment of the
International Criminal Court and we reaffirm our
support for measures to promote its prompt launching.
The great majority of humankind desires a future
of peace and progress. The irrationality and violence of
a minority can be isolated and defeated on the basis of
cooperation among nations following these general
principles, which we endorsed in the Millennium
Declaration, and in regard to which we propose
concrete measures today. We trust that we shall be up
to that challenge.
I cannot conclude without recalling, as the
General Assembly already knows, that the Argentine
Republic is still engaged in a sovereignty dispute with
the United Kingdom over the Malvinas, South Georgias
and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding
maritime areas. The recovery of the full exercise of
sovereignty over that part of our national territory,
respecting the interests of their inhabitants and
international law, is a precept enshrined in our
Constitution. This issue is on the agenda of this
Organization, which through repeated resolutions has
asked the Governments of Argentina and the United
Kingdom to resume negotiations on a just and lasting
solution to the sovereignty dispute and thus to put an
end to a colonial situation imposed by force in 1833.
Today, in response to that request, Argentina
again reiterates its full readiness to resume bilateral
negotiations with the United Kingdom in order to
resolve the issue, as well as its support for the mission
of good offices appropriately entrusted to the
Secretary-General by the General Assembly to assist
the parties in achieving that goal.
I conclude by calling for peace, justice and
solidarity, so widely sought by all peoples defending
life throughout the world.


"
56,2001,LAO,"﻿On behalf of the delegation of the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, allow me to join
previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your
well-deserved election to preside over the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. It is a tribute to the
important contributions your country, the Republic of
Korea, has made throughout the past years to the work
of our Organization.
I should also like to take this opportunity to pay
tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for
his outstanding and effective leadership of our
Organization. The prestigious Nobel Peace Prize
conferred on him is both a recognition of his personal
achievements and an affirmation of the great and
legitimate mission undertaken by the United Nations.
We wish him well and much success in his second term
as head of the United Nations during the next five
years.
The general debate of the fifty-sixth session of
the General Assembly was not able to proceed as
planned, as a result of the terrorist attacks of 11
September, which caused thousands of deaths. In the
wake of this tragic event, the Government of the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic condemned the terrorist
acts while reaffirming its consistent policy of
cooperating with the international community in the
fight against terrorism in all its forms. In this respect,
in late October, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
decided to become party to five international
conventions on the fight against terrorism.
10

This tragedy has generated a set of ensuing
events. The Government of the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic views the current situation with
great concern and considers that it is high time that our
Organization played a growing role, in conformity with
the United Nations Charter, in the combat against
terrorism and for the peace and security of the peoples
of the world.
Since its inception, the United Nations has made
an important contribution to the maintenance of world
peace and international security, as well as to
cooperation and development in all areas of human
endeavour. Last year, at the historic Summit, the world
leaders reaffirmed the relevance and importance of our
Organization in the new, globalized world. At that
same Summit, we also pledged our commitment to
ensuring that the United Nations adapts to new areas
and strengthens its capacity to deal with the challenges
of maintaining world peace and promoting the
development of all countries.
Several issues inherited from the last century
failed to be addressed. Although the Open-ended
Working Group on Security Council reform has spared
no effort to fully carry out its mandate, the key issues
of the reform of the Council remain unsettled.
Therefore, we reaffirm our position in favour of the
expansion of both the permanent and non-permanent
membership of the Security Council. Equally, we
support the efforts to address the issue of the right of
veto and to find a solution acceptable to all Member
States.
The situation in the Middle East has recently
reached levels of increased violence, causing loss of
life, destruction, damage to property and deep sorrow
and a desire for revenge among both the Palestinian
and Israeli peoples. The Lao People’s Democratic
Republic reaffirms its support for the establishment of
an independent Palestinian State and for respect for
Israel’s right to existence. That would contribute to
guaranteeing long-lasting peace and security in the
Middle East.
Almost every year, the General Assembly has
overwhelmingly adopted a resolution on lifting the
commercial and economic embargo against the
Republic of Cuba. However, those resolutions have not
been effectively implemented. The Government of the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic appeals to the
United States and Cuba to jointly reach a rapid solution
in the interest of the peoples of the two countries,
which would contribute to promoting peace and
developmental cooperation in the region and the world.
On the Korean peninsula, several events have
marked the progress made towards the unification of
Korea, such as meetings and exchanges of visits of
leaders at all levels, reunions of families long kept
apart and humanitarian assistance. The Lao
Government has followed these developments closely
and commends the positive results. Nevertheless, we
are deeply concerned about the situation prevailing in
the region and hope that under the wise guidance of the
leaders of the two countries, the peaceful unification of
an independent Korea will be achieved so as to meet
the fervent aspirations of the Korean people and to
contribute to peace, stability and cooperation in East
Asia and throughout the world.
In South-East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region,
several outstanding activities to promote peace and
cooperation have gained prominence in the region and
throughout the world. In Hanoi, the Association of
South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum
reaffirmed the importance of preventive diplomacy,
confidence-building measures and avoiding military
confrontation. The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
(APEC) meeting in China was a historic rally of unity
in the fight against terrorism and in setting goals for
economic recovery. The Summit of ASEAN members
plus China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, held in
Brunei early this month, stressed the need to combat
terrorism in all its forms, overcome economic recession
and promote development cooperation.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic notes
with satisfaction that the Third United Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, held in
May this year, adopted a more realistic plan of action
to enable the least developed countries to emerge
decisively from abject poverty and be integrated into
the global economic system. We very much hope that
the international community will make joint efforts to
achieve the development objectives enunciated in that
plan of action.
For many years now, the international community
has recognized that the landlocked developing
countries are one of the three vulnerable and
disadvantaged groups of developing countries. Their
vulnerable and disadvantaged condition is attributed to
lack of access to the sea, remoteness from world
11

markets and prohibitive transport costs, averaging 14
per cent of export earnings, compared to only 8.8 per
cent for other developing countries.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic, in its
capacity as Chairman of the Group of Landlocked
Developing Countries, would like to appeal the General
Assembly to endorse the recommendation made by the
fifth Meeting of Governmental Experts from
Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and the
donor community to convene in 2003 an international
ministerial meeting of landlocked and transit
developing countries and the donor community on
transport cooperation, with the objective of addressing
the special problems and needs of the landlocked
developing countries. In this connection, we wish to
welcome the Government of Kazakhstan’s offer to host
the meeting.
By the end of 2000, there were 36.1 million
people worldwide who had tested HIV-positive, of
whom 90 per cent live in developing countries. It is our
hope that the international community will take
necessary drastic measures, including through the
provision of additional and sustained resources, to
implement the Declaration of Commitment on
HIV/AIDS, adopted during the last special session of
the General Assembly.
Another issue of global concern is narcotic drugs.
The production and abuse of drugs have increased and
have become a cause of crime affecting many social
dimensions. Realizing their own responsibilities,
ASEAN Governments and China convened an
international conference in October 2000 in Thailand,
where a plan of action to make ASEAN a drug-free
zone by 2015 was adopted. Also, a ministerial meeting
between four countries — China, Laos, Myanmar and
Thailand — was held in August this year with the
objective of curbing drug production and trade and the
importing of chemical precursors in the subregion.
In an effort to achieve the goals established by
the Political Declaration of the General Assembly
special session held in 1998 and to fully eradicate
opium production, the Government of the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic has mobilized the people and,
together with donors and international organizations,
has taken various measures through tailoring projects
involving crop substitution, preventive education,
drug-addiction rehabilitation and law enforcement. As
a result, in the course of just three years, between 1998
and 2000, opium-cultivated areas have been reduced
from 26,000 hectares in 1998 to 17,000 hectares in
2000. The aggregate opium production has also
declined from 140 tons to 117 tons for the same period.
Moreover, on 12 October 2001, the Lao Government
launched a National Anti-Narcotic Campaign, chaired
by the Prime Minister, with a view to ensuring that
Laos is a drug-free country with a social order and a
bright future for the next generation.
In general, over the last year, the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic has enjoyed firm political
stability and progressive development in all sectors,
especially in food security. All this was reflected in the
solemn celebration of the twenty-fifth founding
anniversary of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
and the successful conclusion of the Seventh Congress
of the Lao People’s Revolutionary Party. These historic
events have profoundly enhanced national patriotism, a
sense of self-reliance, self-resilience and ownership for
the Lao people. In carrying out our mandated task, we
have concentrated all our efforts and untapped strength
to achieve the goals of poverty reduction by halving
the number of families currently living under the
poverty line, stopping slash-and-burn practices, fully
eradicating opium production by the year 2005, and
creating an environment that will enable the country to
quit once and for all the status of least developed
country by the year 2020.
The first year of the twenty-first century has
witnessed new challenges that pose anxiety and
concern for all people worldwide. However, the
twentieth century has created institutional foundations
for strengthening the legal and cooperative framework,
modern technology and partial reform of our
Organization. In addition, dialogue and cooperation
between countries in the economic, social and cultural
fields and in other areas as well continue to be a
general trend in the world. In this spirit, I believe that
the United Nations, a unique and truly universal
Organization, reaffirmed by world leaders at the
Millennium Summit last year, should play a significant
role in addressing these new challenges so that we can
turn our world into a peaceful, happy and prosperous
one.

"
56,2001,MOZ,"﻿I wish to congratulate
His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo upon his election to
preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session, and to express my confidence that with his
skilful guidance, his leadership and his outstanding
experience our deliberations will be crowned with
success. Allow me also to pay a special tribute to His
Excellency Mr. Harri Holkeri for the excellent manner
in which he conducted the affairs of the General
Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I wish him success
in his future endeavours.
On behalf of the people and the Government of
Mozambique, I would like to extend our
congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan on
his well-deserved election to the post of Secretary-
General for a second term, as well as on having won
the Nobel Peace Prize this year. We hail his re-election
and the Noble Peace Prize awarded to him and to the
United Nations as recognition of his and the
Organization’s tireless efforts in the search for viable
and lasting solutions to the problems facing humanity.
Allow me to express our sympathy to the
Government and the people of Algeria with regard to
the loss of life and property caused by the recent floods
in that sisterly country. Mozambique, having been the
victim of terrible floods over two consecutive years,
shares the sorrow of the Algerian people.
We also express our condolences to the
Government and the people of the United States of
America and of the Dominican Republic on the tragedy
which resulted from the plane crash last Monday here
in New York.
On 11 September, we witnessed the most barbaric
terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. We
are deeply shocked at the loss of thousands of innocent
lives.
We wish to avail ourselves of this opportunity to
reiterate once again the condolences of the Government
and the people of the Republic of Mozambique to the
Government and the people of the United States of
America on the tragic and unjustifiable deaths of their
citizens. We express our sympathy and solidarity with
all of the victims and the families that have lost their
loved ones.
19

We reiterate our condemnation of terrorism in all
its forms and manifestations, regardless of its origin or
place of occurrence, or of the race or religion of those
who perpetrate it. Terrorism represents a serious threat
to international peace and security as well as to
friendly relations among peoples and nations
worldwide.
The struggle against this scourge requires
concerted action by the whole international community,
within the framework of the United Nations, for the
target of this evil is not a single nation or people but
humankind as a whole.
It is therefore crucial that all United Nations
Member States work together towards signing and
ratifying all of the conventions and protocols related to
the eradication of this enemy of humanity. These
conventions represent the legal foundation upon which
we can build our collective action against international
terrorism.
The work that is under way for the elaboration of
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism
constitutes a further effort to reinforce the international
community’s resolve to face the challenge of
eliminating the scourge of terrorism.
Mozambique came about as the result of the
exercise by Mozambicans of their inalienable right to
self-determination. Therefore, Mozambicans know well
from their own experience what terrorism is all about.
But they are also aware of the distinction between
terrorism and the legitimate struggle of peoples for
their freedom and independence.
Mozambique is ready to participate in a global
discussion on this issue, as an important and useful
initiative to formulate a joint organized response to
international terrorism, so that the targets of our
common struggle against terrorism are clearly defined.
Conscious of the need for the effective
implementation of national measures to combat
terrorism as a way to complement the international
legal regime, Mozambique has already initiated a
comprehensive review of international legal
instruments to combat and eliminate terrorism, with a
view to ratifying and adhering to them.
In this context, Mozambique signed, on 11
November, the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. However, it
is clear to us that, for an effective implementation of
this and other legal instruments, Mozambique needs
support from the international community to strengthen
its institutions — namely the police, the judiciary, the
financial system and the State prosecutor’s office.
Last year, our heads of State and Government met
here during the Millennium Summit to reaffirm their
faith in the United Nations and in its Charter as
indispensable foundations for a just, peaceful and more
prosperous world.
The leaders set specific targets to halve the
proportion of people who live in extreme poverty, to
provide clean water and basic education for all, to
reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and to achieve other
development goals. They called for the strengthening
of United Nations peace operations so that vulnerable
communities can count on them in their hour of need.
They committed themselves to fighting injustice and
inequality, terror and crime, and to meeting the special
needs of Africa. In order to achieve these lofty goals,
all Member States should display political will and the
determination to turn these commitments into concrete
actions at the international, regional and national
levels.
The holding by the United Nations of the special
sessions of the General Assembly on HIV/AIDS and on
Habitat, the Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small
Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and the
World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
represent bold steps towards resolving the various
problems affecting humanity and constitute concrete
steps in the implementation of the provisions of the
Millennium Declaration.
Mozambique is proud of having played an active
role in contributing to the promising outcome of the
United Nations Conference on small arms and light
weapons. We are confident that the commitments
assumed at that Conference will contribute decisively
towards preventing, combating and eradicating the
illicit trade in, and proliferation of, small arms and
light weapons.
We should continuously and critically assess the
progress made in each area of commitment, with a
view to translating into reality the aspirations and
needs of our peoples. Each subsequent session of the
General Assembly should be used to assess the degree
of progress made in the implementation of the declared
commitment towards specific targets. To this end, we
20

should ensure that follow-up mechanisms are put in
place and effectively enhanced for the successful
implementation of the plans of action adopted.
As we take on the daunting task of pursuing the
goals of the Millennium Summit, we need to work
together in a spirit of partnership and cooperation.
Today we are living in a world in which a few
countries are reaping the benefits of globalization,
while the majority, particularly in Africa, are
increasingly being marginalized by the global
economy. Consequently, these increasing inequalities
and asymmetries aggravate poverty, fuel conflicts and
threaten international security, stability, democracy and
peace.
To reverse this negative trend, we call upon all
developed countries to fulfil their commitment with
regard to official development assistance, increase the
levels of foreign direct investment in poor countries,
and to cancel the external debt of the heavily indebted
poor countries.
It is disturbing to note that in Africa 340 million
people — half of the population of the continent —
live on less than $1 per day. The mortality rate for
children under five years of age is about 140 per 1,000,
and life expectancy at birth is only 54 years. Only 58
per cent of the population has access to safe water; the
rate of illiteracy for people over 15 is 41 per cent; and
there are only 18 main telephone lines per 1,000 people
in Africa, compared with 145 for the world as a whole
and 567 for high-income economies.
This appalling situation requires a strong and
clear commitment on the part of us all — Africans first
and foremost — the international community and other
relevant stakeholders.
The establishment of the African Union during
the thirty-seventh Summit of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of the African Unity is
recognition that only by pooling our efforts can we find
effective solutions to problems affecting the continent.
This effort deserves the support of the international
community, so that a solid union and strong integration
can become a reality in Africa.
The New Partnership for African Development is
an initiative aimed at setting an agenda for the renewal
of the continent, based on national and regional
priorities and on development plans prepared through a
participatory process. It foresees a new framework of
interaction with the rest of the world, including the
industrialized countries and multilateral organizations.
The encouragement given by the G-8 Summit and other
multilateral institutions in Genoa, Italy, last July is
much appreciated.
We are also encouraged by the commitment
assumed by ministers and heads of delegations at the
high-level segment of the substantive session of the
Economic and Social Council held in Geneva last July,
in welcoming the New Partnership for African
Development (NEPAD) and calling on the United
Nations system and the international community to
support it. The invitation extended by the Council to
the Secretary-General to take the necessary measures to
ensure an effective and coordinated response of the
United Nations system is a good course of action aimed
at promoting sustainable development and active
participation of Africa in the world economy. The
African leadership and ownership of the NEPAD must
be guaranteed during its implementation.
Conflicts are one of the main obstacles to
development, particularly in Africa. In order to find
durable solutions to conflicts, we need to focus our
actions on prevention measures and address the root
causes of conflict. In this regard, prevention should be
aimed at addressing, inter alia, poverty, governance,
human rights abuses, hunger, endemic diseases and
underdevelopment. The success of this action requires
national ownership based on partnership between the
Government and civil society.
Beyond the preventive measures, we should also
think how we can effectively implement sound
strategies for conflict resolution and management. The
comprehensive review of the whole question of
peacekeeping operations in all their aspects contained
in the Brahimi report provides sound recommendations
to improve the effectiveness of peacekeeping. It
emphasizes the need for effective command and control
structures, enhanced levels of interoperability, as well
as the importance of training troops to understand and
operate with more robust rules of engagement. We
believe that the recommendations contained in the
report will be effective if more resources are allocated
to peacekeeping activities, particularly in Africa, and if
the response to actual conflicts are timely, so as to
avoid the application of double standards.
Initiatives undertaken by regions and subregions
aimed at conflict prevention, management and
21

resolution should be supported and endowed with the
resources they need to build their capacity to act
effectively. The Organization of African Unity
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution should be enhanced and consolidated to
better give appropriate and timely responses to
conflicts affecting Africa.
The international community should continue to
assist Africa in searching for the peaceful resolution of
conflicts, particularly in Sierra Leone and Somalia, as
well as in Western Sahara, when a United Nations plan
has been agreed to by all parties to the conflict.
It is worth noting that within the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) we are
strongly engaged in activities aimed at tackling
conflicts affecting the region. As the current chair of
the SADC Organ for Politics, Defence and Security,
Mozambique, in close cooperation with the other
member States, will spare no efforts to promote peace
and security, through conflict prevention and
resolution.
SADC will continue to work with the United
Nations and all cooperating partners to bring about
lasting peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Angola and in other conflicts on the continent. The
partnership between SADC and the United Nations
should be continuously maintained and nurtured in the
spirit of the Brahimi report.
As the chair of the Community of the Portuguese-
Speaking Countries, Mozambique is also engaged in
the current efforts to bring about lasting solutions to
the problems still affecting some of Community’s
member States. The Community is happy to welcome
East Timor, which will proclaim its independence in
May 2002 as a result of our joint, concerted efforts
with the East Timorese people.
We are committed to the efforts made by SADC
members to eradicate poverty, combat HIV/AIDS and
better respond to challenges posed by globalization, as
a way to prevent conflicts. We are also supportive of
the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan
within SADC, which aims at boosting the region’s
development agenda for the coming decade.
Political dialogue, consensus building,
partnership and cooperation are a must and should be
pursued vigorously. We believe that the World Trade
Organization Ministerial Meeting in Doha, the
forthcoming International Conference on Financing for
Development and the World Summit on Sustainable
Development provide unique opportunities to
collectively produce an integrated and effective
mechanism for the eradication of poverty and the
overall implementation of the development goals set
out in the Millennium Declaration and in the plan of
action for the Least Developed Countries.
It is our expectation that the Monterrey
Conference will be instrumental in reshaping the world
economic order, giving it more equity and fairness. To
that end, the Conference must resolutely address the
steady decline of official development assistance and
foreign direct investment, untie development aid (as
already done by the United Kingdom, which we
salute), reform the international financial architecture
and provide a sustainable solution to the debt crisis
through broad, deep and faster debt relief mechanisms,
including total debt cancellation for least developed
countries.
The World Summit on Sustainable Development
should allow us to assess the implementation of
Agenda 21, as well as devising appropriate strategies to
further pursue this daunting challenge. In
Johannesburg, we should strive to ensure the right
balance between environmental protection and socio-
economic development, while making poverty
eradication our highest priority and fully reinstating the
principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
This is perfectly consistent with the Rio spirit
embodied in Agenda 21, a blueprint that should be
absolutely endorsed; we should avoid any renegotiation
of Agenda 21.
In Mozambique the incidence of poverty reaches
about 70 per cent of the population. To address this
negative picture, the Government approved an action
plan for the reduction of absolute poverty, commonly
known as PARPA, for the period 2001-2005. The
strategic vision of PARPA is founded on two
imperatives: the need to maintain peace and stability
and the need for rapid, sustained and broad-based
growth, where private initiatives play an important
role. The programme has gained strong support from
the meeting of the Consultative Group that was held
recently in Maputo and a boost from Mozambican debt
reduction, made within the framework of the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative.
Mozambique is greatly thankful to all its cooperating
partners for the support pledged at the Consultative
22

Group meeting and for the enhanced HIPC. We hope
for a quick implementation of the commitments made,
so that our resolve to combat poverty can be a success.
Looking at the longer term, the Government of
Mozambique launched a national initiative, Agenda
2025, a strategy based on a constructive dialogue on
the future of Mozambique. The Agenda aims at
creating, through a participatory and inclusive process,
a national strategic vision for development, as well as
strengthening the Government’s and civil society’s
ability to define and implement national policies and
projects.
The fight against HIV/AIDS is another priority
for the Government of Mozambique, for which it has
adopted a national strategic plan that focuses on
prevention and reduction of the impact of the disease.
The plan places the human being at the centre of action
and is directed at the vulnerable groups of the society,
including women, orphaned children and youth,
particularly girls. In this endeavour, the Government
has adopted a multisector approach, with the active
involvement of all stakeholders, including our civil
society.
Because HIV/AIDS is a global problem,
combating it calls for a global solution, and we
commend the United Nations for having proposed the
creation of a Global AIDS and Health Fund to combat
HIV/AIDS. The Fund will contribute positively to the
prevention and combat of this epidemic, which gravely
affects the region of sub-Saharan Africa.
Floods affected Mozambique in the years 2000
and 2001 consecutively, which resulted in loss of life
and production and damage to infrastructure, including
roads, schools, hospitals and houses, and forced people
to flee from their lands and abandon their belongings.
These catastrophes posed a serious setback to the
development of our country.
We are encouraged by the outcome of the Post-
Flood Reconstruction Conference, held in Maputo in
July 2001, at which the Government of Mozambique
presented the reconstruction programme for the central
region of the country, following the devastation caused
by the floods in the early part of 2001. At that
Conference, the Government also had the opportunity
to report on progress made on the implementation of
the programme that had been presented at the
International Reconstruction Conference on
Mozambique in Rome in May 2000. Once again, we
wish to thank all those who extended assistance to our
country. The Government of Mozambique also
appreciates the contribution of the United Nations
system and the international community at large in our
efforts to consolidate peace, to strengthen democratic
institutions and to promote development.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm my
country’s faith in the United Nations and its Charter,
for they both remain indispensable foundations for a
just, peaceful and more prosperous world.


"
56,2001,TGO,"﻿The sudden
speeding up of events that has taken place since the
fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly and their
potential impact on the future of humankind only
confirms our impression that our world is experiencing
developments that could, one the one hand, open the
door to hopes for peace, stability and progress, or, on
the other, jeopardize these hopes and imperil prospects
for a better world.
The threat is real. We therefore must mobilize our
efforts to an even greater extent to ensure that the
ideals of peace, solidarity, justice and tolerance can
triumph throughout the world.
Hatred and intolerance took centre stage on 11
September, when the United States, our host country,
was the target of terrorist acts of indescribable and
unjustifiable barbarity.
In the face of the outrage and horror to which
those events gave rise, the President of the Republic of
Togo immediately condemned these heinous attacks,
which he called a veritable declaration of war, and
which, regrettably, caused the death of nationals of
nearly 80 countries, including mine.
Once again, in paying tribute to all of those who
lost their lives in the tragedy of 11 September and in
conveying once again our deep condolences to the
American people, I should like to express the fervent
hope that, thanks to our collective efforts and to a
greater solidarity in our actions, we will be able to
defeat evil.
Because we have on several occasions been the
victims of terrorist acts, Togo is aware of the
significance and seriousness of the consequences of
such acts of murderous violence, which are committed
with complete disregard for respect for human life and
for human dignity.
The joint combat against international terrorism,
in all its manifestations and wherever necessary, is a
task of great importance for the entire international
community, because no one is safe from this scourge.
This fight should not be understood as a confrontation
between civilizations, cultures or religions. Identifying
the true causes of this scourge and finding appropriate
solutions to combat it — this is the true challenge that
we must meet.
In this context, it is important to do everything
we can to ensure the broadest possible participation of
States in the strict application of the 12 international
conventions dealing with specific aspects of terrorism
and to step up negotiations on the comprehensive
convention on international terrorism.
Likewise, it is essential for all States to cooperate
closely with the mechanism has been set up by the
Security Council pursuant to resolution 1373 (2001) in
order to combat this scourge in an efficient and
coordination manner. My country is already complying
with its responsibilities in the context of this process.
12

However, cooperation in eradicating this scourge
needs to be strengthened at the regional level as well.
Thus our West African subregion notes with
satisfaction that it has set up functional structures to
combat terrorism, through the quadripartite agreement
between Ghana, Togo, Benin and Nigeria; and the
Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) Protocol on Mutual Assistance, Protocol
on Non-Aggression and Protocol relating to the
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management,
Resolution, Peacekeeping and Security.
Before continuing my statement, I should like to
join my voice to those of previous speakers in
extending to Mr. Han, on behalf of my delegation and
on my own behalf, our warmest congratulations on his
election as President of the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly. I am convinced that, thanks to his
experience and diplomatic skills, the work of this
session will definitely be successful.
I should like also to extend my warmest
congratulations to his illustrious predecessor, Mr. Harri
Holkeri, who so ably guided the work of the fifty-fifth
session.
Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to
pay well-deserved tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan. Thanks to
his skill and his vision, our Organization has regained
its credibility and its primary role in the management
of international affairs. His unanimous re-election to a
second term of office, and the fact that he won the
Nobel Peace Prize for 2001 together with the United
Nations, attest clearly to the great confidence that the
entire international community places in him.
There cannot be economic progress nor
sustainable development outside an environment of
peace, security and stability. Togo’s foreign policy has
always been based on the principle of seeking peace,
stability and solidarity between nations.
Since coming to power, the President of our
Republic, Mr. Gnassingbé Eyadema, has worked to
consolidate peace. This requires the participation of all
citizens in political life as well as the construction of a
state that is truly based on the rule of law, in which all
individuals can make their contribution and use their
skills in the building of a prosperous nation.
The President had already begun to democratize
political life in Togo by the 1980s. Like any other
human endeavour, the promotion of democracy and
good governance and the consolidation of the rule of
law are part of a process that, by necessity, can be
perfected and can evolve and that fits in a given time
and place.
With various forms of support and aid from our
foreign partners, this process is taking its course and
registering tangible and real progress. We should like
here to express our profound thanks to all our
international partners who have supported us in our
ambition to pursue and achieve political reforms
necessary to consolidate democracy and rule of law in
Togo.
The upcoming legislative elections, in March
2002, are organized with the aim of making this
ambition more of a reality. In this regard, we are
grateful to the United Nations for having recently sent
an assessment mission to Togo to make
recommendations in light of these elections. The long-
awaited upcoming legislative elections, as well as the
proper conduct of the balloting, will, without a doubt,
contribute to boosting the economy of our country.
For it is true that progress made in pursuing any
process of democratization and establishing the rule of
law can be protected only if accompanied by a
significant improvement in the living conditions of the
populations concerned. In other words, to be lasting,
the advances in promoting civil and political rights and
fundamental liberties should absolutely be underpinned
by the real enjoyment of economic and social rights.
In such a context, we may well be surprised at the
unjustified continuation of the economic sanctions
imposed on Togo by our main partners in development
for almost 10 years. What has my country done to
deserve such a fate? What has the Togolese population
done to justify its daily suffering? Why apply this
policy of double standards? Given the way Togo is
being treated, are we to see this as an concrete
illustration of the views of the renowned, classic
French writer Jean de la Fontaine: “Depending on
whether you are powerful or weak, the judgement of
the court will make you white or black”?
The Togolese people still cannot understand why
Togo — which was one of the first countries in Africa
to be committed to the path of democratization and
political reforms and which, in all objectivity, made
progress in this area — continues to be subjected to
such injustice. I would like to make once again an
urgent appeal, on behalf of the Togolese Government
13

and people, for normalization of our cooperative
relations with our development partners.
Peace, security and stability in Africa are still at
the heart of our concerns. We note with satisfaction
that significant progress in settling conflicts has
recently been made on the continent. I would cite by
way of example the cessation of conflict between
Ethiopia and Eritrea, or the gradual return to normal
constitutional life in Comores, despite the vicissitudes
of the last few days. All this was made possible thanks
to the efforts of the Organization of African Unity, the
Organization of la Francophonie and the League of
Arab States. These are glimmers of hope and signs of
relief.
Nonetheless, must remains to be done to bring
about lasting peace and security in certain parts of the
continent, notably in the Mano River region, the Horn
of Africa, the Great Lakes Region and Angola.
The serious crisis endures in the Middle East.
Violence can only beget bitterness and resentment and
perpetuate violence. The hellish cycle of violence that
the region has known for already more than a year —
in particular, in the occupied Palestinian territories —
has certainly had an impact on the negotiations being
pursued with a view to reaching a just, final and
comprehensive settlement to the question of Palestine
that is at the heart of the conflict.
It is therefore important that the parties in
conflict show greater proof of the necessary political
will in applying the agreements that have been reached
and work to conclude other arrangements on the basis
of the relevant Security Council resolutions. In this
respect, Togo welcomes the positive developments that
have been recently made with respect to the evolution
of the position of certain Member States on the
creation of a Palestinian State.
Humanity has fully entered the twenty-first
century, but the economic and social position of
developing countries remains of concern. In sub-
Saharan Africa and in the least-developed countries in
particular, we are witnessing an ongoing deterioration
of living conditions and the unprecedented
marginalization of these countries — a situation that
can only exacerbate misery and extreme poverty.
Debt burden, the decline in export earnings and
the lack of sufficient resources for development have
greatly contributed to making social and economic
conditions worse. Therefore more resources must be
allocated to these areas. In addition to these
insurmountable difficulties, we now have the
pandemics of AIDS and malaria.
Africa, which is already organizing itself and
taking matters in hand, expects the international
community to make good on the commitments
undertaken at the Millennium Summit. Against this
background, we hope that the major encounters that
will take place in 2002 — the International Conference
on Financing for Development and the World Summit
on Sustainable Development — will be opportunities to
take appropriate measures that can genuinely
contribute to economic growth and poverty reduction.
We also hope that specific and substantial support will
be given to Africa in implementing its development
plan, as contained in the New Partnership for
Development in Africa.
At the start of the millennium, with great changes
underway in the world, the United Nations still is,
without a doubt, the centre for new hopes and
expectations of humanity. More than ever before, it has
shown itself to be the appropriate framework in which,
together, we can and must work to meet the numerous
and complex challenges that humanity faces in the
context of an increasingly inexorable process of
globalization.
While continuing to work to maintain peace and
security, promote sustainable economic development
and move towards eradicating the great pandemics, we
also must confront poverty, injustice, selfishness and
exclusion, which, it seems to me, still are the source of
many problems that often lead to acts of violence,
terrorism and armed conflict. Thus, and only thus, will
it be possible for us to establish a new international
order of greater justice, solidarity and humanity."
56,2001,LBN,"﻿Mr. President, allow me first to congratulate you on
your election as President of the fifty-sixth session of
the General Assembly, which is meeting under critical
and exceptional circumstances. We wish you every
success in your arduous endeavours. I also wish to
thank your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri. In addition,
on this occasion, I would like to pay tribute to
Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the efforts he has
made throughout the year. We hope that he will be able
to enhance the prospects for peace, stability, and
development in the world during his second term of
office.
The whole world was shocked by the enormity of
the tragedy that struck the United States of America on
11 September — the barbaric terrorist acts against New
York City and Washington, D.C. These acts exacted a
high toll among innocent civilians and plunged the
peoples and countries of the world into an atmosphere
of gloom and anxiety. We once again extend our
condolences to the families who lost their loved ones;
some of them were Lebanese, or American of Lebanese
descent. We share their deep sense of grief and sorrow.
From this rostrum, I would like to reiterate
Lebanon’s condemnation of these terrorist attacks.
Lebanon stands ready to cooperate seriously, positively
and responsibly with the United States and the United
Nations in the fight against terrorism, in accordance
with the rules of international law and with the
prerogatives of national sovereignty.
For a long time, Lebanon has suffered from
Israeli occupation and Israel’s terrorist practices. We
resisted this occupation until it ultimately ended with
Israel’s withdrawal from most of our national
territories. It is perfectly normal in this context to
stress the need for distinguishing between terrorism,
which we strongly condemn, and peoples’ legitimate
right to struggle for the liberation of their territories
from foreign occupation on the basis of the United
Nations Charter and General Assembly resolutions. As
regards Lebanon, we have to refer to the April
Understanding of 1996, an agreement which was
reached under the auspices of the United States and
France after Israel had carried out the Qana Massacre
that same year, in addition to the Taif Agreement that
had laid down the tenets of our national reconciliation.
A series of Security Council presidential statements
have given the Council’s blessing to the Agreement.
Both the Taif Agreement and the April Understanding
recognized the legitimacy of resistance against the
Israeli occupation.
Let me recall here that had Israel not invaded
Lebanon on 14 March 1978, there would have been no
Lebanese Resistance — which, of course, is the subject
of our pride — to counter this invasion.
Had Security Council resolution 425 (1978)
adopted on 19 March been implemented without delay,
as stipulated in its provisions, the Resistance would not
have been born.
Had it not been for widening the scope of the
Israeli invasion of Lebanese territory and the
subsequent occupation of Beirut in 1982, the
Resistance would not have escalated.
Had it not been for Israel’s persistence in
occupying what it called “the security zone”, no one
would have had to resist it and ultimately force it to
14

withdraw in May 2000 from most of the territories that
it had occupied.
Had Israel not occupied the Palestinian territories,
there would have been no need for a courageous
uprising against occupation.
It must be pointed out that Lebanon is determined
to fight terrorism. We have acceded to 10 out of the 12
conventions relevant to the question of international
terrorism. We stand ready to respond positively to any
international initiative, including the convening of an
international conference for this purpose, to arrive at a
standard definition of terrorism. It would be wise not to
link terrorism to a particular race or religion,
particularly to Arabs and Muslims, if we want to avoid
setting world civilizations and religions on a collision
course. We can thus avoid falling into the trap designed
by those who are pushing the world towards collision,
conflict and strife.
Side by side with its Arab brothers, Lebanon is
determined to exert additional efforts to combat
terrorism and eradicate its various root causes. In 1998,
Arab States successfully negotiated and concluded the
Arab Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism, a
Convention with clear-cut purposes and objectives.
The events of 11 September have demonstrated
that humanity has not yet reached its ultimate
evolutionary stage. They also prove that unbridled
global rejectionist movements and terrorist groups that
know no boundaries and accept no restrictions are
capable of undermining our confidence in everything
we have achieved so far. They are working to establish
what can be referred to as a “new world disorder” and
global instability.
Under the circumstances, and given prevailing
fears, a thorough look at what is happening in the
Middle East conflict zone would clearly reveal the
difficulty of realizing the objectives of peace and
development promoted by the United Nations. In recent
months, the world has witnessed continued Israeli
occupation of Palestinian territories, unjust and
arbitrary Israeli practices, desecration of holy sites,
blockades, killings, assassinations and displacements.
Such acts continue with no international deterrence or
control.
Intransigent Israeli policies, deviation from the
Madrid principles and terms of reference, and stripping
the peace process of its political content in favour of
so-called Israeli security considerations indicate that
projected solutions to the Middle East crisis are
divided among many conflicting rationales. There is
the rationale of a partial solution and that of a
comprehensive solution; the rationale of basing a
solution on force and that of basing it on what is right,
just and grounded in United Nations resolutions; the
rationale of achieving security at the expense of peace
and that of making peace the foundation of security.
In the aftermath of 11 September, attention has
focused on the need to step up the effort to find a
political solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, a solution
that should allow the Palestinian people to establish an
independent Palestinian State on their national soil. It
is our duty to recall that a just and comprehensive
peace necessitates that we simultaneously address all
aspects of the Middle East conflict. The Lebanese and
Syrian tracks must not be separated from the track of
the overall settlement. That track is stalled, and
reviving it will require the devotion of additional
efforts. The liberation of Lebanese territories from
Israeli occupation must be completed. Israel must
withdraw from the entire occupied Syrian Golan
Heights to the line of 4 June 1967. The question of
Palestinian refugees, their legitimate right to return,
and Lebanon’s right to oppose their resettlement on its
territories must not be ignored. This opposition is
grounded in the principles of fairness, justice and
sovereignty.
In the light of the above, we believe that a
comprehensive peace built on justice and on the
resolutions conferring international legitimacy is the
sole guarantee of the sustainability of any desirable
solution.
There are two fundamental questions in Lebanon
that are of direct concern to the United Nations: one is
the mandate of the international forces in southern
Lebanon and the other is the destiny of Palestinian
refugees in Lebanon.
In paragraph 14 of Security Council resolution
1365 (2001), which was adopted on 31 July, the
Security Council requested the Secretary-General to
submit a comprehensive report on the activities of the
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL),
taking into account its possible reconfiguration into an
observer mission in the light of the developments on
the ground, following appropriate consultations with
the Government of Lebanon.
15

Due to the gravity of the situation, and in
anticipation of the Secretary-General’s report, it is
important for me to stress from this rostrum that both
logic and the realities on the ground call for
maintaining Unifier’s existing mandate without
amending it or reconfiguring the mission into an
observer force. On the contrary, we believe that
UNIFIL’s role must be strengthened, particularly as it
has not yet fulfilled the entire mandate entrusted to it
by the international community in Security Council
resolution 425 (1978), which was adopted on 19 March
1978. That mandate cannot be implemented by an
observer force due to the following questions that are
still pending.
The first pending question is the verification of
the Israeli withdrawal from all Lebanese territories. It
is a known fact that the United Nations did not verify
the Israeli withdrawal from all Lebanese territories. It
only verified the withdrawal of Israeli forces to a de
facto withdrawal line, which became known as the blue
line. That line is not in conformity with Lebanon’s
internationally recognized borders, a fact recognized in
subsequent reports of the Secretary-General.
Therefore, the Shab’a farms, on the slopes of
Mount Hermon, remained under Israeli occupation,
together with three additional points along the line of
withdrawal drawn by the United Nations. At the time,
Lebanon expressed its reservations on these points.
These territories are Lebanese lands and Lebanon
reserves its natural right to restore them and to extend
its sovereignty to them. Lebanon would like to stress
here that it will stand up for every inch of its national
soil and for all its rights to its water resources, in
accordance with international law. In that regard, we
must draw attention to the fact that Israel continues to
violate Lebanese sovereignty on a daily basis. In his
report issued in July of this year, the Secretary-General
described these violations as provocative. Furthermore,
Israel continues to increase the frequency of its threats
against Lebanon and Syria.
The second pending question concerns the
restoration of international peace and security. In his
reports to the Security Council between May 2000 and
July 2001, the Secretary-General recognized that
UNIFIL had not fully implemented the task entrusted
to it. He repeatedly said that there is a third task the
international forces have yet to undertake, and on
which UNIFIL will have to concentrate. That task is
the restoration of international peace and security in
the region. How can we speak of a third task yet to be
completed by UNIFIL under Security Council
resolution 425 (1978) and at the same time discuss the
possibility of reconfiguring UNIFIL into an observer
mission?
In that respect, we are duty-bound to recall that
the security of the region is indivisible. We would be
deceiving ourselves if we were to believe that peace
and security can be restored to the region outside the
context of a comprehensive overall solution to all
aspects of the conflict on all its tracks. Such an
undertaking requires an all-inclusive effort, not only by
UNIFIL but also by the entire United Nations, which
should be responsible for the enforcement of its
resolutions, particularly resolution 242 (1967), 338
(1973) and 425 (1978).
From this rostrum, I call on the United Nations
Secretariat and the Security Council to preserve
UNIFIL’s existing mandate. The timing is of particular
importance, given the serious circumstances prevailing
in our region and in the world. We must also recall that
in May of this year the Security Council adopted a
statement in which members acknowledged Lebanon’s
concerns and apprehensions, including those relating to
the future.
Lebanon is tirelessly seeking to achieve a total
Israeli withdrawal from its territories. At the same
time, it attaches great importance to the release of the
Lebanese people kidnapped by Israel during its
occupation of our land and thereafter detained in Israeli
jails. They remain incarcerated in Israeli prisons as
hostages, in contravention of international laws and
instruments, particularly the Geneva Convention of
1949 and the subsequent Protocols thereto.
The 130,000 landmines that were left behind by
the Israeli occupation are still killing, maiming and
harming scores of civilians in Lebanon. They curtail
their freedom of movement and obstruct their work. We
consider this to be a continued — albeit indirect —
form of occupation of Lebanese territories by Israel. In
the light of this situation, the United Nations and the
international community should make a greater effort
to compel Israel to hand over all maps and records
disclosing the locations of the mines, which have to be
cleared as soon a possible.
However, with respect to the hundreds of
thousands of Palestinian refugees who have been
provisionally hosted on Lebanese land ever since their
16

expulsion from their homes in Palestine — and for
whose final status the United Nations bears essential
responsibility — we reiterate our demand for a just
solution to their cause, on the basis of the
implementation of their right to return and of our
refusal to resettle them in Lebanon.
In this regard, it behoves us to remember that the
resettlement of the Palestinian refugees in Lebanon
would constitute a time bomb that would jeopardize the
peace, security and stability in the Middle East; such
refugees will relentlessly seek to return to their
homeland and Lebanon is unable to integrate them,
given the precariousness of its own internal
equilibrium and the fact that provisions of its national
pact do not allow for any form of resettlement.
Furthermore, Lebanon appeals for greater
international attention to enable us to provide urgently
needed assistance that could help return our liberated
lands to normalcy, restore economic balance and
provide opportunities for growth after long years of
occupation and destruction.
This is an era of responsibility and accountability
for the world, but accountability cannot be selective,
nor can it be based on double standards. During the
long years of occupation of the Lebanese territories,
Israeli bombardment and the destruction that ensued
killed thousands and injured and disabled thousands
more. Our infrastructure, vital facilities, houses,
schools, farms and bridges were destroyed and our
growth and development were hindered. Lebanon must
therefore be adequately compensated. Lebanon will
spare no effort in appealing to the relevant international
political and judicial organs to request that Israel make
reparations for the damage resulting from its acts of
aggression.
It may be useful to recall here that Israel did not
withdraw from most of the Lebanese territories of its
own accord; neither did it withdraw in compliance with
the decision of an international authority or in response
to a political requirement that remained on the table for
over 22 years. Rather, it withdrew under pressure from
the Lebanese resistance, which was embraced by the
Lebanese State. It withdrew because of the
steadfastness of the Lebanese people. Its withdrawal
was not a voluntary démarche for peace, as some
would have it. The withdrawal was a measure taken to
avoid peace, and instead to seek alleged security at the
expense of the requirements of a just and
comprehensive peace.
Lebanon is a democratic Arab country, open to
the world, with a civilization that goes back thousands
of years. Thanks to our diverse social composition, our
experience is informed by coexistence and consensus.
It is a unique experience, rarely paralleled in our world
today. We call on the Assembly to mobilize the forces
of peace and justice in order to redress the historical
injustice inflicted upon the Palestinian people. The
Assembly must bring about a just and comprehensive
solution to one of the most complex and dangerous
regional conflicts in the Middle East. It is a conflict
that has depleted the resources of its people, hindered
its progress and stunted its contributions to the world.
This solution will unfetter its creative capabilities and
enable it to develop a global partnership free from fear,
injustice and terror.
My country is proud to be hosting the next Arab
Summit, to be convened in Beirut in March next year.
Preparations are already under way to receive the Arab
monarchs and presidents. We will also be hosting the
Ninth Summit of the International Organization of la
Francophonie in the fall of 2002, under the heading,
“Dialogue among cultures”. Lebanon is a founding
member of the League of Arab States, the United
Nations and the International Organization of la
Francophonie. Lebanon, which participated in drafting
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is capable
of proving that it can reassert its active presence and
again take a pioneering role at the regional and
international levels. We come from a time-honoured
civilization, and are blessed by unique and
distinguished experience of coexistence. We will put
this to the service of the noble objectives of the United
Nations.




"
56,2001,AZE,"﻿This session of the
General Assembly is being held at a very difficult time
for all of us. I congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous
election to the position of President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly and I sincerely wish
you all success in guiding the work of the session and
would like to assure you of our full support.
Under the current circumstances, enhancement of
the United Nations effectiveness becomes increasingly
important, and in this regard, I would like to express
our special gratitude to Mr. Harri Holkeri, whose
activity as President of the fifty-fifth session of the
General Assembly was an example of the commitment
to the revitalization process of the Organization.
We regard the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to the
United Nations and Mr. Kofi Annan as evidence of the
international community’s recognition of the special
role played by the Organization and of the great service
of its Secretary-General. Congratulating our Secretary-
General, I would like to stress that we place special
hope in him and to reiterate our support for his
activities aimed at achieving those very objectives for
the sake of which the United Nations was created.
The Millennium Summit identified challenges in
the context of global development that can be
addressed only through coordinated efforts by the
entire international community within the United
Nations system.
One year ago, nobody could have foreseen the
tragedy that would befall all of us, a tragedy that has
shown the depth of the abyss before which the world
finds itself today. The dramatic events that struck the
United States make it imperative for us to take a new
look at the aspects of global development in the
twenty-first century.
Threats and risks in the context of globalization
acquire new scale and character, and the international
community must change its approaches accordingly.
Today, an attack against one of us is considered as an
attack against all of us. Will this approach become
universal?
Azerbaijan suffered from a series of horrific
terrorist attacks that were part and parcel of the conflict
imposed on Azerbaijan by neighbouring Armenia.
Unfortunately, our warnings about the terrorist threat,
as well as our appeals to the international community
to join efforts in the fight against this evil, made from
this very podium, went unheeded.
26

Terrorism is closely linked to aggressive
separatism and other forms of extremism, as well as to
organized crime, drug and arms trafficking and other
illegal activities that literally flourish in conflict zones
and that provide terrorist and separatist groups with
financial resources. Terrorism and separatism get large-
scale outside support from States and private structures
alike. Response to these threats must not be selective.
They can be eliminated only through adequate and
comprehensive countermeasures undertaken on the
basis of the principles and norms of international law
against all those who use terror to achieve their goals,
leaving them no hope of escaping unpunished. Nothing
can justify terrorism. There should be no room for
double standards, palliatives or narrow national
interests.
We all have witnessed many manifestations of
terrorism that have taken place in different regions of
the world, under different slogans and covers. This fact
by itself clearly shows that the phenomenon of
terrorism is not associated with any particular religion.
Hence, the fight against terrorism should not be a fight
against a religion. We must take effective measures to
reverse a dangerous trend of imprudent instigation to
hostility between Islam and Christianity.
The legal, political, military and other actions
taken today by the international coalition are not the
only prerequisites for a successful fight against
terrorism. It is necessary to redouble the efforts aimed
at assisting and enabling the least developed countries
in the process of their social and economic
development to use the opportunities provided by
globalization.
Unfortunately, in many regions of the world we
still see violent conflicts that claim tens of thousands
of lives and undermine the sovereignty, territorial
integrity and security of States. One such example is
the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Masking
its claims to the Azerbaijani territory under the banner
of the struggle for the self-determination of the
Armenian population of the Nagorny-Karabakh region
of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia
has occupied this Azerbaijani territory, as well as seven
adjacent regions of Azerbaijan, and has conducted
ethnic cleansing on the occupied territory, which has
resulted in the expulsion of 1 million Azerbaijanis from
their homes.
My country has been waiting for eight years for
the Security Council to take practical steps to
implement the following four resolutions concerning
the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict: 822 (1993), 853
(1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993). The Council
adopted these resolutions back in 1993 in order to take
enforcement measures against the aggressor, in
accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter.
Until now, mediation activities of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) Minsk Group, which is co-chaired by the
United States, France and Russia, and which will be 10
years old next year, have not produced any results, so
the tenth anniversary may turn out to be a sad one.
Armenia continues to violate the principles and
norms of international law enshrined in the United
Nations Charter and the OSCE Helsinki Final Act, and
it ignores the provisions of the relevant Security
Council resolutions and OSCE decisions. Rejecting this
international legal basis for the settlement of the
conflict, Armenia negotiates from the position of
power and on the basis of fait accompli, trying to
consolidate the results of its armed aggression and to
annex a part of Azerbaijan territory.
Armenia states that there is a conflict between
certain principles of international law, but there is not a
conflict between those principles. The right of self-
determination cannot be regarded as a right to forcible
separation of a part of a State’s territory and must not
justify the violation of the principle of territorial
integrity of States, in our case, that of the Republic of
Azerbaijan. Indeed, the real conflict is between
Armenia and international law, which prevents
Armenia from realizing its claims to the territory of
neighbouring States.
The international community should not choose
the easiest course of action and should not recognize
the right of the powerful. Instead, it must act in
accordance with the established principles and norms
of international law and the decisions of international
organizations.
It is unacceptable to blame both sides for the
deadlock in the negotiations, ignoring the differences
between the compromises and concessions demanded
of Azerbaijan, on the one hand, and those demanded of
Armenia, on the other. The aggressor and the victim
cannot be held equally responsible.
27

The Republic of Azerbaijan stands ready for a
resolution of the conflict based on the principles of
sovereignty, territorial integrity and the granting of
self-governance to all the people of the Nagorny-
Karabakh region within the Azerbaijani State. The
Republic of Azerbaijan is prepared to provide safety
and security for this region’s population.
Azerbaijan is interested in a just and peaceful
resolution of the conflict more than anybody else, and
we will continue to undertake all the necessary steps to
achieve tangible results. But our efforts alone are not
enough. Expeditious settlement of the conflict should
become one of the main priorities for the international
community. There is no room for stop-gap measures
and “wait-and-see” positions. The situation demands
fundamental approaches and actions on everyone’s
part. We expect a very significant contribution from the
co-Chairmen of the Minsk Conference at the highest
level.
Azerbaijan, which for eight years has been
hosting 1 million refugees and internally displaced
persons, continues to face an acute humanitarian
problem that will only be resolved completely by
creating the conditions necessary for them to return to
their homes as soon as possible. Crises in the
neighbouring regions have created another problem for
my country, which now has to deal with a significant
number of refugees from other countries. Taking all
these difficulties into consideration, we deem it
necessary for the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Baku to
continue its functions. Currently, Azerbaijan needs
even greater UNHCR assistance, as well as assistance
from other United Nations humanitarian agencies and
donor countries. I would like to take this opportunity to
express our sincere gratitude and appreciation to all of
the aforementioned who have given their support and
assistance.
We believe that in order to enhance the
effectiveness and efficiency of United Nations
activities in the area of the prevention of armed
conflict, it is necessary to better monitor the
implementation of Security Council decisions. To this
end, we propose, for general consideration, that the
Security Council adopt the practice of submitting to the
General Assembly periodic reports on the
implementation of the Council’s decisions.
We deem it necessary to strengthen the capability
of United Nations rapid deployment forces. The faster
the international community can react to the outbreak
or resumption of a conflict, the easier peace and justice
will be restored.
Globalization should enable us to promote
sustainable development and the integrity and stability
of public administration systems, eliminate
discrimination in economic activity and ensure
prosperity for all peoples. Azerbaijan is contributing to
moving this process forward. We are sparing no effort
to restore the Great Silk Route, to create a Europe-
Caucasus-Asia transport corridor and to develop
deposits of hydrocarbons in the Caspian Sea basin and
transport them to world markets. These projects are of
paramount importance in terms of the free and
sustainable development of States in several regions of
the world. Furthermore, they will give impetus to
transregional cooperation and will serve as a factor that
determines global development.
The free exploitation of natural resources and
their transportation to world markets is the inalienable
right of a sovereign State. Azerbaijan calls upon all the
Caspian Sea States to refrain from the use or threat of
force in the Caspian Sea basin. The Caspian Sea must
be a sea of peace and cooperation. Azerbaijan supports
early agreement on the delimitation of the Caspian Sea
on the basis of principles and norms of international
law and established practice in the use of the Caspian
Sea.
As a member of the group of landlocked
countries, Azerbaijan needs assistance from the
international community to develop its transport
infrastructure in order to integrate it effectively into the
global economy.
In its efforts to implement the concepts
underlying transregional cooperation, Azerbaijan is
taking a multi-track approach and working within the
framework of a number of structures. One of them is
GUUAM (Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan
and Moldova), an organization consisting of five newly
independent States whose names form the acronym and
whose economies are in transition. The States members
of GUUAM, which celebrate the tenth anniversary of
their independence this year, have confronted
numerous challenges and threats during the difficult
period of the formation and development of their
statehood. Such threats have manifested themselves
28

most clearly during the periods of armed conflict which
broke out in three of those five member States.
GUUAM stands for the speedy, peaceful settlement of
conflict based on the norms and principles of
international law enshrined in the United Nations
Charter, the Helsinki Final Act of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and other
relevant documents and decisions of the United
Nations and OSCE.
Currently, the GUUAM member States, located in
Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia, are trying to
achieve greater integration into the world economy
and, to this end, are actively cooperating in creating
multidirectional transport corridors and in ensuring
their safety and security.
Within the framework of humanitarian
cooperation, we regard as very promising a GUUAM
initiative aimed at creating a Europe-Caucasus-Asia
cultural corridor, which would promote cooperation in
such areas as culture, science and education. Joint
projects in the area of tourism will also have a
significant role to play.
The United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) has actively assisted Azerbaijan in addressing
the development issues it faces. At the same time, the
Government of Azerbaijan is deeply concerned by the
continuing decrease in the core resources of UNDP.
Developing countries and economies in transition need
a strong UNDP that is able to provide effective
assistance in the most complex spheres of
development. The Government of Azerbaijan calls
upon donor countries to increase the financial base of
official development assistance, both multilaterally and
unilaterally. In distributing official development
assistance special attention should be paid to the needs
of African countries, the least developed countries, the
small island States and the landlocked States.
Azerbaijan places a great deal of hope in the
International Conference on Financing for
Development and the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, to be held in 2002. As a member of the
Commission on Sustainable Development, Azerbaijan
intends to make a constructive contribution to ensure
the success of these important events and to promote
the sustainable development of weak economies.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that we all
bear a tremendous responsibility. Today as never
before, we must act wisely and use our power and
resources not to escalate hatred and violence, but to
promote peace and justice, stability and the
development of our fragile planet.





"
56,2001,MKD,"﻿At the outset, allow me to convey our
deepest condolences to the American people and
Government for today's plane crash and to express our
deepest sympathies to the families of the victims for
their tragic loss. Our condolences also extend to the
people and Government of the Dominican Republic,
whose nationals comprised most of those on board.
Pleading for concerted action against terrorism
and for urgent accession by States to all relevant
international conventions, the Millennium Summit
anticipated the need for more effective and
comprehensive joint efforts and cooperation. The tragic
events of 11 September united the world and reaffirmed
the resolve of all of us to fight the battle against
terrorism, gathered around our common values and
interests. That unprecedented terrorist attack took place
during the United Nations Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations. The fatal message of terrorism is to
destroy the very essence of dialogue as a global
response to conflict and violence.
By adopting several resolutions, the United
Nations demonstrated powerful solidarity and readiness
to combat terrorism. Today that has been reaffirmed by
Security Council resolution 1377 (2001), which
adopted a declaration on the global effort to combat
terrorism.
By expressing its strong condemnation of the
attacks and its solidarity with the American people and
Government, my country, the Republic of Macedonia,
immediately joined the call to establish a global
international anti-terrorist coalition. We undertook
concrete measures as our contribution to the global
efforts and to cooperation to curb terrorist activities.
As a response to terrorism and conscious of the
fact that terrorism transcends borders, we also
proposed the establishment of a regional anti-terrorist
pact, stemming from our terrible experience with
terrorism over the last eight months. We called upon
the international community to cut off financial support
for terrorist activities and, in that context, to strengthen
the fight against organized crime, aware of the strong
link between those evil phenomena. The resolution of
regional conflicts is yet another significant contribution
we can make to the fight against terrorism.
With regard to relevant international instruments,
we believe that the existing United Nations
conventions provide a solid international legal
framework for the implementation of many measures
intended to eradicate terrorism. While we strongly
support the adoption of a comprehensive convention
against terrorism and a consensus on a global definition
of terrorism, their lack should not prevent us from
taking action.
Action is needed now, from all of us  all
countries, regions and international organizations.
There is no alternative to international cooperation and
partnership, as there is no alternative to the common
fight against organized crime, which feeds terrorism.
But there is one matter we have to keep in mind:
different approaches towards acts of terrorism
undermine our struggle. There is no big or small
terrorism, nor international or domestic, nor one that is
tolerated and one that is not. No one should be allowed
to practice terror; the consequences are equally
devastating. We have to defend more vigorously than
ever our shared values of democracy, human rights and
the rule of law. We must not allow ourselves to be
manipulated through the use of social, economic,
religious and political differences as justification for
terrorism.
For the past 10 years the Republic of Macedonia
has developed a democratic society, a factor of stability
in the Balkans. Our model of inter-ethnic relations was
set out as an example and was applauded by the
39

international community. Then, eight months ago,
Macedonia was exposed to violent terrorist attacks that
threatened to undermine all our achievements. Under
the cloak of struggling for minority and human rights,
the so-called National Liberation Army (NLA) ─
whose structure, command and control and logistics are
of Kosovo provenance ─ wanted to realize one aim: the
division of Macedonia and changing the borders in the
region.
Our response to those attacks was military,
political and diplomatic. The Framework Agreement of
13 August of this year, which was signed by the leaders
of the four main political parties, is a result of our
strong commitment to finding a political solution to the
crisis as the best way to defend our country and
undermine the goals of the terrorists. But let me
reiterate that we will also defend our country by other
means if necessary.
The cost of terrorism for Macedonia was high:
lost lives, destroyed homes and thousand of refugees
and internally displaced persons. The crisis also caused
economic downfall and a large budget deficit. It has
had a negative impact on the country's development
and has increased unemployment and poverty rates. I
therefore urge the international community, financial
institutions and, in particular, the European Union to
address our needs at the upcoming donors' conference
and to consider the possibility of writing off our
foreign debts.
At this point, allow me to underline that the
international community gives strong political support
to the Republic of Macedonia. The European Union,
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) and NATO are playing an important
role in overcoming the crisis, for which we are
grateful.
I would also like to commend the prompt reaction
by the Security Council. The awareness that the
problems in Macedonia were largely inspired in and
imported from neighbouring Kosovo resulted in the
adoption of resolution 1345 (2001), by which the
Council, inter alia, strongly condemned extremist
violence, including terrorist activities, and supported
the Macedonian Government in its efforts to end the
violence in a manner consistent with the rule of law.
On 26 September the Council adopted resolution 1371
(2001), which supported the full implementation of the
Framework Agreement and rejected the use of violence
in pursuit of political goals. Even though the United
Nations was not directly involved in the resolution of
the crisis in Macedonia, it is present on the ground
through its agencies, working in cooperation with the
Government to alleviate the consequences. We are
grateful for their help, too.
Despite the efforts of the Republic of Macedonia
and the international community, attempts are still
being made to block the work of the parliament and to
obstruct the implementation of the Framework
Agreement. The latest events in the Tetovo area, the
death of three policemen and the kidnapping of
Macedonian civilians are proof that violence continues.
We should all condemn these obstacles to peace and
stability. Macedonia is determined to pursue the path of
peace and will not allow these events to blur our vision
and detract us from our main goals of building a strong
democracy at home and becoming integrated into Euro-
Atlantic structures.
The recent history of crises has shown more than
ever the importance of cooperation and solidarity
among the countries of our region, and we have acted
accordingly. The integration into the European Union
and NATO is a common goal of all the countries in the
region of South-Eastern Europe. We are all aware that
membership is a solution to lasting stability and
prosperity.
We are determined to contribute to the
strengthening of international peace and security, to
enhancing international cooperation in all areas and to
strengthening the role of the United Nations. This year,
the Republic of Macedonia submitted, and the First
Committee adopted without a vote, a draft resolution
on the maintenance of international security  good-
neighbourliness, stability and development in South-
Eastern Europe. That resolution was co-sponsored by
46 Member States.
The struggle against terrorism must not deter us
from taking up other important parts of the United
Nations agenda. At last year's Millennium Summit we
identified the direction of future United Nations
activities to which we committed ourselves: the
eradication of poverty, the struggle against AIDS,
conflict prevention and the protection of the
environment. On this occasion, however, let me refer to
the matter of the rights and well-being of children, and
in that context to reiterate the importance of the
upcoming special session on children as a forum to
40

review the progress achieved and the further steps that
need to be taken for the benefit of children all over the
world.
Furthermore, globalization remains one of the
most important issues on the international agenda. It is
obvious that there are some essential problems that
need to be addressed immediately. In the new
millennium, it is crucial for the international
community to address the development agenda in a
more appropriate way. We believe that the United
Nations has a major role to play in this process. Next
year's International Conference on Financing for
Development and the World Summit on Sustainable
Development are the most important events in this
respect, and we should all contribute as best we can to
their successful outcome. Another important issue is
the launching of the new comprehensive trade
negotiations under World Trade Organization
patronage, with special emphasis on the problems of
marginalization, sustainable development and
implementation of all multilateral environmental
agreements.
After 11 September, the world changed. We have
to adjust to the new realities. There are many
challenges ahead of us, and the United Nations has to
be better prepared to deal with them. That will require
even greater commitment on our part. The strength and
the success of our Organization depend on the resolve
of all its Members to respond to the new realities in a
more efficient, relevant and adroit manner. We all have
our part to play in this respect. This is the best
contribution we can make to building a better world for
all of us.
Last, but not least, allow me also to extend my
sincere congratulations to the United Nations and to its
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, on the Nobel Peace
Prize award. This is yet another proof of the lasting
relevance of the principles and values of our
Organization as enshrined in the United Nations
Charter and of the outstanding leadership of its
Secretary-General.

"
56,2001,KAZ,"﻿This session
that is taking place under extraordinary circumstances,
when the whole world is still reeling in shock from the
world’s most terrible terrorist attacks, carried out in
New York and Washington. This unprecedented action,
aimed against the civilian population, has provided yet
one more confirmation that terrorism poses a threat to
the whole world and has highlighted the relevance of
the proposals to join the international community’s
efforts in its common fight against terrorism, drug
trafficking and organized crime.
Our country calls for international legal norms to
be strengthened and for further mobilization of States’
efforts to counter international terrorism. Taking into
consideration the developments in the world that are
identified with this growing threat, we support the
initiative regarding the early adoption of a
comprehensive convention against international
terrorism.
Afghanistan’s transformation into one of the sore
spots of our planet was a matter of concern for
Kazakhstan well before the events of 11 September.
During the Millennium Summit, the President of the
Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbaev, taking
into account the potential danger of a spillover of the
intra-Afghan conflict, proposed to convene a special
meeting of the Security Council devoted to the
consideration of the situation in Afghanistan and
Central Asia in order to devise comprehensive
measures to settle the situation in the Islamic State of
Afghanistan.
Welcoming Security Council resolution 1378
(2001), unanimously adopted on 14 November, we
share the Secretary-General’s view that the Security
Council should adopt a comprehensive approach to
settling the situation in the Islamic State of
Afghanistan and its political, military, economic,
humanitarian and human rights dimensions. Such an
approach, in his opinion, ought to be based on a careful
diagnosis of the current situation in Afghanistan, based
on the premise that no military solution to the Afghan
conflict is possible, or indeed acceptable, since
territorial gains achieved on the battlefield do not
constitute a basis for the legitimatization of power.
The issue of nuclear disarmament and non-
proliferation is of special significance to our country.
This year we mark the tenth anniversary of our
independence, as well as the tenth anniversary of the
shutdown of the Semipalatinsk nuclear testing ground,
which represented an important step towards a nuclear-
free, stable and safe world and its deliverance from the
spectre of global Armageddon. The harm that was done
first and foremost to the people of Kazakhstan was
acknowledged by the participants of the conference
entitled “The Twenty-First Century: Towards a
Nuclear-Weapon-Free World”, which was held from 29
to 30 August 2001 in Almaty.
Nuclear-weapon tests have caused the destruction
of the landscape, ecosystem, economic structure and
traditional way of life of the people in the affected
areas, which happen to be the historical centres of
Kazakh statehood and culture. We are grateful to our
partners who, in line with the three resolutions adopted
by the General Assembly, are helping to rehabilitate the
area of the testing ground, including the conversion of
infrastructure. Yet, much remains to be done. We
believe that the financial aid, experience and expertise
of international organizations, donor countries and non-
governmental entities play an important role in
addressing the problems of the affected region. The
outcome of the Almaty Conference has demonstrated
that the well-being of the planet, which is so cherished,
should be achieved not through threats and the use of
weapons, but exclusively through peaceful means such
as negotiation and dialogue.
Acknowledging the necessity of strengthening
stability and security at both the regional and global
levels, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
Mr. Nursultan Nazarbaev, addressing the forty-seventh
session of the General Assembly, put forward an
initiative to convene a conference on interaction and
confidence-building measures in Asia. Leaders of 16
Asian countries are to meet for the first time in Almaty
in the first half of the year 2002 to discuss threats to
regional peace and security, to arrive at a shared vision
of forms and modalities of addressing such threats and
to agree on confidence-building measures and the
establishment of the structures and institutions of the
Conference. The work carried out so far shows that
compromise solutions are quite possible, even with
respect to differences that seem irreconcilable. In that
context, the Conference represents a forum based on
principles that are conceptually new for Asia, namely,
37

trust and cooperation as a means to ensure security and
stability.
Globalization, which has become a dominant
factor in international life, opens up vast opportunities
for social and economic development. At the same time
the United Nations should actively help to solve
current global trends associated with serious problems.
We call for an increased contribution on the part of the
Organization to improving the global environment for
sustainable development and to bridging the gap
between developed and developing countries. The
development of a globalization model for the modern
world — beginning with its economic component —
that would fully take into account the interests of all
countries could become a priority objective of the
Organization within the framework of the current
reforms at the United Nations. More active efforts by
the United Nations to promote the integration of
economies in transition into the world economy are
becoming especially important for Kazakhstan.
Against the background of irreversible growth in
global interrelationship, regional integration, which is
actively supported by our country, is gaining
momentum. Kazakhstan attaches great importance to
cooperation within the framework of the Economic
Cooperation Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization, the Eurasian Economic Community, the
Central Asian Economic Community and other regional
economic organizations, and will contribute as much as
it can to building up their capacity and their
international standing. We consider it a priority to
develop cooperation with the United Nations in such
areas as strengthening the social security system
through efforts to fight poverty and unemployment;
developing transportation infrastructure by maintaining
and improving highways and railroads; solving the
problems of rivers in border areas; and supplying
drinking water in a number of regions.
We intend to take full advantage of the
geographical position of our country and of the
favourable location of continental transit routes. That
endeavour will be helped by an international
ministerial conference of land-locked countries devoted
to transit and transportation issues, which will be
convened in Kazakhstan in 2003 with the assistance of
the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development.
A transition to environmentally sound and
sustainable development is a priority goal of the
strategy to ensure the economic growth of Kazakhstan.
Stabilizing and improving the quality of the
environment in the Aral Sea basin are of overriding
importance to our country. Kazakhstan has called, and
will continue to call, for an integrated approach to
solving the problems of the Aral Sea and for wider
participation in the effort being made by the
programmes of the United Nations system.
The participation of the United Nations is also
important in solving the host of problems related to the
development of the Caspian Sea region. The problem
of the Caspian Sea has outgrown its regional
boundaries and has become global. As an effective tool
of regional and global economic partnership, the
United Nations has a role to play to implement a policy
of preventive diplomacy in the region in order to work
out an agreed programme for the development of the
Caspian Sea.
The process of globalization, which is
characterized by growing interdependence among
States in all spheres of life, presents new challenges for
the international community. In those circumstances,
multilateral efforts by the community of nations to find
adequate answers to new challenges and threats play an
exceptionally important role. Kazakhstan supports
strengthening the central role and authority of the
United Nations in efforts to ensure global stability and
to build equitable relations between States and peoples
based on mutual respect and universal values. We call
for increased efficiency of the United Nations system
as a whole, including the Security Council, its principal
organ responsible for the maintenance of international
peace and security. In that regard, Kazakhstan fully
supports the need for adequate implementation of the
decisions taken at the Millennium Summit and fully
shares the development goals and objectives set out by
the international community in the Millennium
Declaration.
The recent decision to award the Nobel Peace
Prize to the United Nations and its Secretary-General is
a sign of recognition of the Organization’s contribution
to strengthening international cooperation —
cooperation aimed at the maintenance of peace and
security for the sake of succeeding generations and in
the interests of the prosperity of the peoples of all
countries. That award has demonstrated that the United
38

Nations plays a special role in efforts to strengthen
global partnerships for international purposes.




"
56,2001,LBR,"﻿I am honoured to
participate in this historic session on behalf of His
Excellency Dr. Charles Ghankay Taylor, President of
the Republic of Liberia, and to share with the
Assembly his contribution to this debate.
I am pleased to congratulate the President on his
on your election as President of the fifty-sixth General
Assembly. We wish to assure His Excellency of the full
cooperation of the Liberian delegation.
May I also take this opportunity to acknowledge
the outgoing President, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland,
for the very able manner in which he conducted the
fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly.
By the same token, I would like to congratulate
our distinguished Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
on his re-election as Secretary-General and for the
distinguished recognition he received in being awarded
the Nobel Peace Prize, which, without a doubt, is a
result of his vision, commitment and the efficient
manner in which he has led and continues to lead our
organization.
On 11 September 2001, not very far from this
place, which is dedicated to the maintenance of
international peace and security, the world was
confronted with a kind of terrorism that now renders all
of us vulnerable. This terrorism is not confined to any
one group of people, nor is it confined to any one
geographical location, or to any particular ethnic or
religious group. Because of its transnational nature, the
world must come together and, in a coordinated and
collective manner, construct new models in answer to
this scourge. We must act without delay, and without
unnecessary debate. We must act with determination
and urgency.
25

The problem of terrorism today requires that our
Organization, the United Nations, should take the lead
in coordinating and consolidating international efforts
to tackle the new challenges that it raises. The United
Nations should serve as a catalyst for these efforts, and
not another bureaucratic web of inaction and prolonged
debate. The United Nations — the institution that
humanity has charged with the responsibility for global
peace and security — is today the subject of terrorist
threats. We must match our words with deeds; we must
respond to this scourge.
My Government reiterates its condemnation, in
the strongest terms, of the barbaric and heinous acts of
terrorism perpetrated against the United States, leading
to unimaginable and enormous loss of lives and
massive destruction in New York, Washington, D.C.,
and Pennsylvania. My Government has made concrete
offers to the United States Government and the
international coalition, and has taken strong measures
in keeping with Security Council resolution 1373
(2001).
I wish now to proceed to issue of reform of the
United Nations. I believe, like the rest of you, that
reform implies change towards a more positive
condition. And I presume that when we speak of the
United Nations, we speak of nations that have come
together with a common interest to achieve a common
objective. In essence, when we speak of reform, we
must accept that the conditions under which our
nations have come together — with a common interest
to achieve a common objective — are no longer
palatable and require change. The questions that many
of us continue to debate regard what changes we want,
and how to achieve those changes.
However, I must interject a fundamental question
as to whether the conditions, practices and traditions
exist for a positive change, assuming we mean positive
for the collective good. In bringing about any positive
change for the collective good, a level playing field
must exist, in which the interest of the whole will
freely manifest itself in the change. A level playing
field should show the following characteristics:
transparency; freedom; fairness; and democratic
practices.
In terms of transparency, we must assume a
condition in which the operation of and decision-
making process within the United Nations and its
specialized agencies are open. The Security Council
should not deliberate in secrecy, as was the case during
the pre-World War II years, in which secret diplomacy
and alliance formations characterized the period.
In terms of freedom, we must assume that
Members of the United Nations can take decisions in
the absence of threats, coercion, fear and retribution.
In terms of fairness, we must assume that
decisions cannot be taken in contradiction to universal
moral imperatives, or to the detriment of the statehood
of a Member. Sanctions with adverse socio-economic
and humanitarian consequences should not constitute
political tools available to a few Members.
In terms of democratic practices, we must assume
that decision-making will be reflective of the will of
the majority and not of a few; that all Members will
have an equal say and equal participation.
Unfortunately, the contrary of these preconditions
constitutes the status quo today with regard to the
functioning of the United Nations. How can we assume
the possibility of reform in the absence of a level
playing field?
Reform can be meaningful only in the context of
the alteration of the spirit of the Charter. That, as I
have suggested, would assume the presence of a level
playing field. However, we must all admit that the
concept of reform has gained currency only because of
an attempt to admit emerging Powers into the elite
group of permanent members of the Security Council.
Such an attempt has provoked an outcry against the
privilege of the few, and the challenge is how to admit
these emerging Powers without disrupting the existing
allocation of privilege. Privilege is never surrendered.
It is shared only when the political structures compel
inclusion.
Reform will not occur within the United Nations
until structural changes take place in the distribution of
power and more non-traditional Powers emerge. It
would therefore be an exercise in futility to expect
concrete reforms in the United Nations without
structural changes. And what we assume to be reform
is essentially an adjustment occasioned by structural
pressures. This adjustment would be limited to
accommodating the newly emerging Powers, while
appeasing the less powerful States through
participation without power. The conferral of the right
26

of veto will mark this distinction. A permanent seat
will no longer be synonymous with the right of veto.
For the less powerful, the struggle will not be
about power, but participation by affiliation, a sort of
status club. Prestige is a preoccupation of the national
character, which, despite its superficiality, will be
pursued by States seeking to distinguish themselves
from the crowd. Hence, the focus of the less powerful
will be to join the club, and not the pursuit of the more
important goal of integration, which is the only answer
for the conversion of the less powerful into emerging
Powers that would compel adjustment through
structural pressures. Debate is not the mechanism of
change.
Individual less powerful States can hope to
emerge as powerful States only through a process of
integration within regional groupings where power in
its entire composite is integrated into a common power
capability. This would require integration of economic,
military, technological, human, political and social
resources into an integrated regional capacity. Only
when this objective is achieved will the structure of the
international political system yield to adjustment.
Africa cannot, with all of its potential, continue to
stand by and accept being condemned to perpetually
occupy the position of the least developed continent.
The African culture, heritage and value systems stand
the risk of being lost in the sea of normative ethics
based on Western values. Africa should not miss the
opportunity of the new African Union to achieve
meaningful integration and cooperation within the
context of building a powerful African capability that
will allow Africans a say in our common world. This
will require a new pragmatism, commitment, vision,
cooperation and sacrifice on the part of African
leaders. The United Nations can work for Africa; we
should learn from the successes of the power brokers
who have made the United Nations an important
instrument of their foreign policy.
Liberia is a small country in West Africa that
suffered seven years of civil war from 1990 to 1997.
During the years of the civil war most institutions were
destroyed, and a major brain drain resulted, as many
Liberian professionals travelled abroad to better
conditions. The war also resulted in the destruction of
basic infrastructure, including power-generating plants,
water plants, schools, hospitals, airports, bridges and
private property. Over 666,000 Liberians ended up as
refugees and over a million as internally displaced
persons. More alarming was the failure of the
international community to assist in the reintegration of
over 60,000 former combatants who remained
unemployed and idle.
In 1997 a constitutionally elected Government
was inaugurated facing the challenges of restoring a
nation that had been destroyed by war. Four years later,
the infant Government still faces an unsympathetic
international community; it has received no official
development assistance, and donor assistance for
United Nations agencies and the non-governmental
organizations operating in Liberia has declined over the
past four years. The current unemployment rate is 85
per cent, while 80 per cent of the population lives
below the poverty line. According to the United
Nations Children’s Fund, the illiteracy rate is estimated
at 80 per cent. Half of all school-age children do not
attend school. Infant mortality stands at 134 out of
1,000 live births.
Disability prevalence in the population is 16.4 per
cent, of which 12.7 per cent is war-related. The World
Health Organization rate for a post-war country is
between 7 per cent and 10 per cent. The prevailing
causes of disabilities are alarming, with 91.5 per cent
acquired due to trauma and diseases. About 21 per cent
of urban dwellers and 80 per cent of rural dwellers
have no access to safe drinking water. Access to
adequate sanitation is unavailable to approximately 70
per cent of the population. An estimated 8 per cent of
the population is reportedly infected with HIV.
Since 1999, dissidents have waged war in Lofa
County against the constitutionally elected Government
in Liberia, further exacerbating the already vulnerable
humanitarian situation in the country. Death,
destruction, displacement of populations and an
increase in Liberian refugees have contributed to what
the United Nations agencies call a humanitarian crisis
in Liberia.
The Liberian Government’s capacity to defend its
territorial integrity has been impaired by a United
Nations arms embargo, despite the right to self-
defence, as expressed in Article 51 of the United
Nations Charter. The Security Council has taken no
measures to prevent the ongoing killing of innocent
Liberians, especially women and children, who are the
targets of atrocities committed in Lofa county by armed
dissidents.
27

This country, a victim of war, poverty and
disease, is today also the victim of a regime of punitive
sanctions imposed by the Security Council in its
resolution 1343 (2001). The representative of the
United Nations Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs told the Security Council on 5
November 2001 that the humanitarian situation in
Liberia today is “abysmal”. (S/PV.4405, p. 32) Since
the imposition of sanctions by the Security Council,
and despite the claim by the Council that the sanctions
would not have any adverse effects on ordinary people,
socio-economic indicators show that the living
conditions of the Liberian people have declined
dramatically. Available statistics show a direct
correlation between the imposition of sanctions and the
decline in the living standards of the Liberian people.
The Security Council has imposed a global travel
ban on more than 100 Liberians, without any
rationalization. My Government has requested the
Security Council to make known its criteria for the
inclusion of persons subject to the travel ban. This
minimal element of transparency and justice has been
denied the Liberian Government. Among those
subjected to the travel ban are the sick, invalids,
businessmen, wives and ex-wives. What a frightening,
alarming and dangerous precedent the Security Council
has set. Liberia speaks not for itself, as it has already
been victimized, but for the rest of you here, who may
find similar treatment meted out against yourselves
tomorrow.
I await impatiently for a tomorrow when there
will be redress from the injustice my country suffers,
when all of you here will no longer be obliged to
enforce unjust sanctions. Today, I am impatient to hear
the General Assembly voice its opposition to the
suffering imposed upon Liberian children, women and
elderly persons. I impatiently wait for each and every
member of the Security Council to respect the human
rights of my people. I am impatient for the day when
the United Nations will no longer be an instrument that
is used to cause the suffering of innocent people. The
Government of Liberia calls upon the Security Council
to lift all sanctions imposed upon it and to bring to an
end the suffering of the Liberian people.
At the twenty-sixth session of the United Nations
General Assembly, in 1971, a major decision was taken
that to date has had far reaching implications. On 25
October of that year, after two decades of debate, by
virtue of General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI)
adopted by a vote of 76 in favour, 36 against and 17
abstentions) the Republic of China was expelled from
the world body. By that decision, a founding Member
and its population — at that time of 14 million
people — were effectively prevented from associating
with the rest of the world. Nothing in the Charter
justified such a decision, yet a precedent was set that is
still unsurpassed. Nevertheless, it is the conviction of
the Liberian Government that the now 23 million
peace-loving people of the Republic of China should be
allowed representation and participation in our world
body. It is also the hope of the Liberian people that the
great Chinese people will one day be peacefully
reunited under the principles of democracy and human
rights.
In conclusion, permit me to allay the anxieties of
all those who are preoccupied with the existing
situation between the members of the Mano River
Union. The leaders of the three Mano River Union
States have resolved to put all of their differences aside
and not to return to the destructive process of
apportioning blame. We are a single people bound by
blood, culture and language. We are bound by a
common destiny that links us inextricably to one
another and is capable of withstanding ephemeral
differences. I wholly agree with President Conté of
Guinea when he described our quarrel as a family
matter. Our sons and daughters, brothers and sisters,
and mothers and fathers have commenced the process
of reconciliation and confidence-building in Freetown,
Conakry and Monrovia. So far, a number of significant
decisions have been taken at the level of ministers for
foreign affairs and the Joint Security Committee. We
ask for the Assembly’s support in that process.
I would be remiss if I failed to acknowledge the
true fraternal solidarity and support of the Economic
Community of West African States, which has stood
the test of all of our challenges and difficulties and
remains focused on the objective of peace. We too will
remain focused on the objective of peace.


"
56,2001,BDI,"﻿It
is for me a signal honour to take the floor today before
the Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. On behalf of my
delegation, I wish at the outset to express my sincere
congratulations to Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic
of Korea on his well-deserved election to the
presidency of this body of the United Nations. We
believe that his vast experience, his dynamism and his
competence guarantee the success of our work at this
session. He can count on my delegation to be fully
available to him. We will spare no effort to facilitate
his work so that his noble mission can be carried out to
the fullest.
Allow me next to pay sincere tribute to Mr. Harri
Holkeri for the way he acquitted himself in his term of
office leading the work at our last session. We all
appreciated his many talents as a statesman and
seasoned diplomat, which in large measure contributed
to bringing the work of that session to a successful
conclusion.
I should like, finally, to avail myself of this
felicitous opportunity to convey the greetings of the
Burundian people to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-
General of the United Nations, and to express to him
once again my heartfelt congratulations on his
unanimous re-election to the helm of the Organization
for a second term of office. At the same time, I address
to him my warmest congratulations on the Nobel Peace
Prize just awarded to him and to the United Nations
itself. This token of renewed confidence is a striking
expression of recognition of the United Nations
family’s tireless efforts in every corner of the world for
the cause of peace and development. My Government
is particularly obliged to the Secretary-General for his
personal commitment to helping the people of Burundi
emerge from crisis so that through the ongoing peace
process they can resume the path of peace,
reconciliation and development.
All of us were shocked and horrified by the
murderous attacks perpetrated here in New York,
Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on 11 September
2001. My Government firmly condemned those odious
terrorist acts, characterized by indescribable barbarity.
The President of the Republic of Burundi, Mr. Pierre
Buyoya, dispatched a message of condolence to
22

President George W. Bush immediately after the tragic
events had been reported.
The events of 11 September 2001 mark a new
global challenge for the United Nations in its resolute
fight against terrorism and for maintaining
international peace and security. The Government of
the Republic of Burundi fully subscribes to the relevant
resolutions of the United Nations on the fight against
terrorism. Committed to the ideals of peace and
security the world over, it intends to make its own
contribution to building a world from which
international terrorism will be banished. Towards that
end, Burundi endorses the various international
conventions against international terrorism. It has
already ratified three of them, and this morning we
signed the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, adopted in
1999. The necessary steps will be taken to sign and
ratify the remaining conventions. Burundi hails the
adoption by the Security Council of its resolution 1373
(2001) and stands committed to examining in depth its
scope of application on our own national territory.
In light of the plethora of sophisticated juridical
provisions — extant for nearly 30 years now — to fight
against this scourge, a profound awareness and far
more sustained collective action today is imperative.
The Government of Burundi agrees with the content of
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which
emphasizes:
“... the need to enhance coordination of efforts on
national, subregional, regional and international
levels in order to strengthen a global response to
this serious challenge and threat to international
security” (S/RES/1373 (2001), op. para. 4).
That global response obviously, and as a matter of
priority, is an imperative for us, the Members of this
institution, the United Nations, on which the Charter
explicitly confers the role of maintaining international
peace and security.
As to the situation in my own country, Burundi,
the present session is being held at a time when the
peace process has just completed a particularly
decisive phase. Indeed the Arusha Peace Accord,
which Burundi signed on 28 August 2000, has begun to
be resolutely implemented. May I be allowed to bring
to the attention of the distinguished representatives
gathered here certain major developments worthy of
being emphasized. After a number of consultations
held among the signatories to the Peace Agreement,
and after the Facilitation and Regional Initiative, the
matter of the transitional leadership for the next three
years has been settled. On 1 November 2001, the
solemn inauguration of the President and Vice-
President of the Republic and the transitional
Government was held.
I wish to make a point of expressing the very
sincere thanks of the Government and people of
Burundi to the heads of State and other eminent
personalities that elevated those ceremonies by their
presence.
At this important stage in the peace process, I
should like to take care of a pleasant duty, namely that
of paying tribute first to the late Mwalimu Julius
Nyerere, who was the first to play a mediator’s role in
the inter-Burundian peace process in an extremely
delicate setting. Secondly, I wish to make it a point
solemnly to hail the courage, vision, perseverance and
tact that His Excellency the former President Nelson
Mandela displayed throughout the inter-Burundian
negotiations so as to help the Burundian people regain
the path to peace, reconciliation and democracy. From
this lofty tribune I wish to express to him our feelings
of profound gratitude. We feel the same sentiments of
sincere appreciation to the United Nations and all
countries and personalities that have worked from near
or afar to see to the signing of the Peace Accord,
people who continue to invest of themselves in order to
see the Agreement fully implemented. It is thanks to all
these pooled efforts that some glimmer of hope is
perceptible in the Burundian political skies.
The new Government has set itself as a priority
task halting the war, rehabilitating victims and
restoring the country in socio-economic terms.
Notwithstanding, however, our firm determination to
move forward, the programme continues to encounter
enormous challenges, challenges such as the
persistence of war and the exacerbation of poverty.
With regard to the war, we must deplore the fact that
armed groups continue to sow grief and desolation in
various parts of the country, pursuing a nameless war, a
war that is killing innocents in their homes, in the
camps for displaced persons and along the roads, a war
that favours pillaging and rape and that has destroyed
social and economic infrastructures built at great cost.
We denounce and condemn in the strongest terms this
new type of violence, namely the seizing of school
23

children by rebel elements to press-gang them into
guerrilla forces or to have them do their dirty deeds.
In this context the priority of all priorities for my
country thus remains the quest for a ceasefire, which
would make it possible to begin the major reforms
envisaged during the transitional period.
Notwithstanding numerous initiatives directed by our
Government towards the armed groups — the Conseil
national pour la défense de démocratie-Forces pour la
défense de démocratie (CNDD-FDD), and the Forces
nationales de la libération (FNL) — inviting them to
subscribe to the peace process and join in negotiations,
as yet there is no sign of a firm, formal commitment on
their part that would allow us to move forward in that
direction. Nonetheless we feel that these armed groups
no longer have political claims that they can truly
brandish, given the fact that the Arusha Accords
envisage their participation in transitional institutions,
their recruitment into defence and security corps and
their social and professional reintegration if they so
desire.
While thanking our partners for the variety of
initiatives already launched to bring the Burundian
rebels into the peace process, I should like once again
to call upon all the countries members of the Regional
Initiative, the Facilitation in the inter-Burundian
negotiations, the Organization of African Unity, the
United Nations, and the rest of the international
community to continue to bring pressure to bear upon
these armed groups so that they will lay down their
arms and rejoin other Burundians around the
negotiating table without further delay, in conformity
with Security Council resolution 1375 (2001), adopted
on 29 October 2001, and other resolutions of the
Council. We particularly ask for the invaluable help of
the countries in our subregion, all of them co-
signatories to the Arusha Accords, so that all the
necessary steps will be taken to stop these armed
groups from attacking Burundi. Notwithstanding these
various initiatives, if the rebels continue obstinately to
refuse dialogue, my Government will call upon the
international community and all parties signatories to
the Arusha Accords to do all they possibly can to
neutralize and disarm the FDD and FNL and, at the
same time, the other negative forces allied to them.
The continuing deterioration in the socio-
economic situation in my country constitutes yet
another source of major concern for the new
government team. Indeed, eight years of the worst kind
of fratricidal war, together with three years of
unjustified economic embargo, from July 1996 to
January 1999, have plunged the country into a state of
extreme poverty which will be difficult to overcome.
What is more, international cooperation since 1996 has,
as it were, been frozen, thus confronting us with a lack
of foreign exchange and a major erosion of our
monetary situation. Furthermore, in the year 2000,
economic activity continued to suffer from the heavy
blows of drought, bringing about negative growth for
two consecutive years in an essentially agricultural
country.
Over the same crisis period, the situation with
regard to health has significantly deteriorated.
Notwithstanding efforts exerted by my Government,
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases such as those
linked to malnutrition, continue to rage among our
people, already weakened by the horrors of war. The
major performance indicators for education reflect a
net decline. Access to drinking water and general
hygiene conditions have seriously deteriorated at a
time when many of our dwellings and the basic social
infrastructure, such as schools and health centres, have
been destroyed by war.
Faced with a particularly trying situation,
Burundi looks for a great deal from the United Nations
and its agencies, its various bilateral partners,
international organizations and non-governmental
organizations to help our economy to recover, in the
name of international solidarity and for the benefit of
our people plunged today into a state of unprecedented
poverty. I thus urgently appeal to my country’s various
partners to make tangible the reality of the promises
made at the Pledging Conference for Burundi, held in
Paris from 11 to 12 December 2000, for the purpose of
rebuilding and helping the recovery of our economy. A
round table following through on these commitments
made at that Conference is to be organized in Geneva
in December 2001. The Government of Burundi counts
on the active participation of our partners, particularly
in making available the aid promised.
On the international scene the delegation of
Burundi hopes to see the implementation of the
provisions of the Millennium Declaration adopted last
year by the heads of State and Government of Member
States of the Organization. It particularly supports the
reforming of the Security Council and welcomes the
fact that this matter already enjoys the broad-ranging
backing of the Members of the United Nations. It
24

regrets nonetheless that discussions on the modalities
that the reform is to take are at an impasse, and this,
eight years after the establishment of the Working
Group under General Assembly resolution 48/26,
adopted on 3 December 1993. My delegation,
notwithstanding all that, remains confident that the
work of the Working Group concerned will be quickly
concluded, the results being of the keenest interest in
terms, once again, of galvanizing this major body.
Burundi wishes to draw the attention of the
Assembly to the problems that have grown more and
more serious and alarming because of the accumulation
and excessive and destabilizing proliferation of small
arms and light weapons and the arms race. In this
connection it is ever more necessary and urgent to
develop and effectively implement specific
disarmament programmes. We welcome the adoption of
the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and
Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light
Weapons in All Its Aspects at the United Nations
Conference, held from 9 to 20 July 2001, here in New
York. Our surest hope is for that Programme to be
effectively implemented to relieve the suffering of
people in the regions where this kind of weaponry
continues to take the lives of thousands of innocent
people. What is more, the Government of Burundi
remains devoted to the goal of the total elimination of
weapons of mass destruction, whether they be nuclear,
chemical or biological.
To have peace and security prevail required
adopting a working strategy for conflict prevention,
with a view to understanding fully the motives and
dynamics of confrontation and to curing this evil at its
root. It also means resolutely attacking the structural
causes that drive people to revolt, namely ignorance,
want, disease, extreme poverty, underdevelopment and
its corollaries, and inequities in the distribution of
wealth. There is a chain directly linking desperate acts
and the fanaticism bred of frustration and humiliation.
Thus, the imbalance between the North and the South
is unlikely to promote harmonious equilibrium. Indeed,
on the basis of available statistics, more than one third
of mankind lives in absolute poverty. This is liable to
grow worse if the rich countries continue not to
shoulder their responsibilities in terms of aid for
development.
Improving the living conditions of people
contributes, through its induced effects, to reducing
other anachronistic factors growing out of poverty,
such as the child labour ban by International Labour
Organization (ILO) conventions and the spread of the
HIV/AIDS pandemic. My delegation continues to hope
that the International Conference on Financing for
Development, scheduled for March 2002 in Mexico,
will adopt strategies to reduce these inequalities
between and within countries. It expects from that
Conference a definition of the strategic objectives in
terms of consistent policies for integrating developing
countries into the global economy, whatever their level
of development.
As to globalization, many indeed are those that
denounce its perverse effects, as witness the clashes in
Seattle and Genoa. In this context, we are duty-bound
to see to it that globalization becomes a positive force
for all mankind in the best interests of all. Yet another
issue of concern to my delegation continues to be that
of human dignity, which cannot be conceived as
divorced from respect for human rights, including that
of self-determination. Towards that end, the delegation
of Burundi continues to hope that the Second
International Decade for the Elimination of
Colonialism, from 2001 to 2010, proclaimed by the
Assembly by its resolution 55/146 of 8 December
2000, will help to eradicate its last bastions.
It is impossible to talk about international
concord without calling to mind the right to justice,
genuine justice and real fairness in the settlement of
disputes. On that score my delegation would like yet
again to reiterate the importance the Government of
Burundi ascribes to the International Criminal Court,
regarding which preliminary steps towards ratification
are being taken. Indeed, my delegation shares the same
conviction as the Secretary-General of our
Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, when he affirms that we
must build a world where order and justice reign in
terms of respect for the primacy of law in international
relations.
The challenges confronting the international
community are multiple and take many forms. The
efficacy of the Organization will be judged by its
ability to keep cohesion intact and to promote people’s
holistic development, so as to fashion a world where all
can realize their potential and where we all espouse
peace, fraternity and equality. We are all called upon to
strive towards the realization of that noble cause.





"
56,2001,HUN,"﻿First, may I congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on his
election to preside over the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly. I assure him that he has the
Hungarian delegation’s full support in the effective
fulfilment of his tasks and high responsibility. At the
same time, I wish to thank Mr. Harri Holkeri for the
much appreciated work that he carried out in his
capacity as President of the preceding session of the
General Assembly.
Sixty-three days have elapsed since 11
September. More than 80 nations are in mourning
today, mourning the absurd deaths of their compatriots,
men and women from all over the world and
representing different and various traditions, cultures,
beliefs and ethnic origins. Approximately 6,000 people
perished as a result of heinous terrorist attacks in New
York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania, and we
remember the victims in our prayers and extend our
deep sympathy and compassion to their families and
friends.
These attacks were committed against the entire
civilized world and against fundamental human values.
The Security Council and the General Assembly very
quickly took firm and clear measures in order to defend
the universal interests of the international community.
To this end, an effective global coalition was created in
which Hungary, side by side with many other countries,
is proudly participating. Those who perpetrated and
supported these terrorist attacks are trying to depict
their acts, as well as the reaction of legitimate self-
defence to those acts, as a war of religion. Clearly it is
nothing of the sort. There can be no justification for
these acts, nor for any other terrorist activities
anywhere else. In fact, international terrorism pursues
political objectives and is trying to undermine our
multi-ethnic and multi-concessional world, to
exacerbate regional conflict, to pit various cultures one
against another and to impose on us by force its own
order of hatred and fanaticism. The nature of the
challenge with which we are confronted is eminently
strategic: first, because it calls into question the raison
d’être and endangers the very existence of our
civilization; secondly, because the terrorist network,
which is organizing against us, has managed to develop
global capacities; and, lastly, because in the war that is
declared against us, terrorism abides by no legal order
and follows no rules.
We can welcome the fact that, on the basis of a
convergence of interests, cooperation among States has
acquired, in the two months following the terrible
event, a dimension that is very promising and entirely
new. But major combat against international terrorism
will certainly not be short. Of course the military
action launched against the Taliban regime and the
terrorist Al Qaeda organization represent an important
element, but not the only one, within the framework of
international action. Within this struggle, the tasks that
we have to carry out are complex and multifaceted. We
have to do our utmost in the political, diplomatic,
educational, legal, and also financial, humanitarian,
economic and social areas to make sure that we, in the
final analysis, emerge victorious from this struggle. We
must recognize that in this struggle we have to
redouble our efforts to promote the rule of law, to
reject extremism, intolerance, discrimination and
nationalistic tendencies and to intensify the global
work that has to be accomplished in order to eradicate
poverty and ensure sustainable development. The fight
against terrorism is part and parcel of the general
18

framework of this global endeavour within which we
are trying to build a better world.
The terrorist attacks against the United States will
probably be remembered as a turning point in our
history, and also an opening to a new era. What is
certain is that from now on humanity will not be able
to continue in the same way as before. Governments
have to shoulder major responsibility vis-à-vis this
challenge, which now touches directly upon our
everyday existence. The international community
managed to find the most appropriate response by
bringing together a coalition unprecedented in inter-
State relations, the historic importance of which will
certainly go far beyond our own era. Hungary stands
ready, within the limit of its capacity, to take an active
part in that coalition.
In the present situation, the United Nations is
called upon to play a role of primary importance, to
strengthen the effectiveness of international action.
Through the development of 12 anti-terrorist
conventions, the United Nations has already
contributed very significantly towards the development
of a common framework of international law in the
fight against terrorism. Through the adoption of other
conventions, which are now being prepared, the legal
framework will become even more comprehensive and
general. However, in order to do that, we must make
new efforts and, given the importance of what is at
stake, and the fact that we have common goals, the
groups of countries concerned should display a greater
degree of flexibility. The United Nations should be able
fully to play its role of enhancing the practical
implementation of international anti-terrorist
cooperation.
In the wake of the terrorist attacks, a series of
specific measures were implemented by my country’s
Government. At the international level we have
strengthened our cooperation, both political and legal,
in the anti-terrorist area with our allies at NATO and
our partners within the European Union (EU). We
decided also to implement Security Council resolution
1373 (2001), and we will forward to the Committee
that was established under the terms of that resolution a
detailed report on the national measures undertaken by
Hungary to fight terrorism. I should like to recall at
this stage that Hungary is a party to most of the
international, multilateral conventions against
terrorism.
As regards the two most recently passed United
Nations conventions in this area, let me state that my
country has just deposited today with the Secretary-
General the instrument of ratification for the
International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Bombings. I should like to announce that
Hungary will sign the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism in the
upcoming weeks. We are determined to become a party
to that Convention as quickly as possible, so as to
complement the Hungarian participation in
international conventions that are universal in nature
and deal with the fight against terrorism. Furthermore,
my Government recently submitted to Parliament a
draft law to strengthen national regulations in the areas
of money-laundering and fighting terrorism.
Hungary attaches very special importance to the
success of the international humanitarian action in
Afghanistan. Through the two Hungarian humanitarian
organizations, which traditionally have played a role in
the region, my Government has started to forward
humanitarian assistance to the refugees and the Afghan
population. Such assistance consists of foodstuffs and
blankets for about 15,000 people.
My Government is very deeply concerned at the
danger represented by the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction and their means of delivery. Our
commitment in favour of multilateral control over such
weapons remains unchanged and we participate in
international efforts aimed at limiting and eliminating
weapons of mass destruction. The tragic events of 11
September and the recent anthrax-related incidents
make us realize the possible dramatic consequences of
the absence of a reaction by the community of nations
to the challenge presented by weapons of mass
destruction, including biological weapons. We think
that the strengthening of the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production and
Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin
Weapons and on Their Destruction will enable the
international community to act even more effectively
against the intent to use biological agents for military
objectives. The ad hoc group asked to work out
measures for implementation managed to make notable
progress in the almost seven years of its history, and is
very near agreement. We regret that it could not
finalize its work before the date of the Fifth Review
Conference of the Convention. It is important that the
Conference should leave aside the divergence of views
19

with regard to the approach to the modalities of the
long-term strengthening of the Convention, and that
instead it should underscore the commitment
undertaken by Member States to promote the integrity
of the system of the prohibition of biological weapons.
In its capacity as Chair of the Fifth Review
Conference, Hungary would like to do its utmost in
order to justify the hopes expressed by Member States
and public opinion that specific results will emerge
from the Conference. We would like actively to
contribute to making sure that efforts aimed at
strengthening the system of prohibition of biological
weapons will also continue without interruption after
the Conference.
The Statute of the International Criminal Court is
a political and legal document of capital importance. It
translates into fact the historic aspiration we have had
that those who commit the crimes of genocide, war
crimes and crimes against humanity will not be allowed
in future to act with impunity. Therefore, we warmly
welcome the ratification of the Rome Statute by a
rapidly growing number of countries, to date
numbering more than 40. Within this context I wish to
announce here that the Hungarian Parliament, by a
resolution that was adopted almost unanimously,
ratified the Statute on 6 November. The deposition of
the instrument of ratification will take place in the
course of this month of November.
Hungary is working actively so as to ensure that
the Court, this very important institution of our era, can
start working in the near future. We should also make
efforts to ensure that it will be universally accepted as
soon as possible because only in that way will it be
able to be successful in its work and effective in the
area of maintaining peace and international security
and effectively protecting international humanitarian
law and human rights.
Our world has changed and we all have to change
with it. Unfortunately, when I say that I am not saying
that earlier challenges have disappeared but rather that,
in addition to the difficulties we already have, we are
facing a new crisis that compels us to think
strategically and at the same time be very resolute in
our action. The work that we have to carry out is
therefore wider and broader and the only choice we
have is to act on the basis of our human values in the
interests of our civilization and future security. The
United Nations is part and parcel of that endeavour.
The Millennium Declaration speaks of it with great
eloquence and the events of 11 September only
strengthen the message contained therein by
underscoring the crucial nature of the times we live in,
a crossroads between two centuries and two millennia.
We are asked to provide answers to the global
questions that haunt us and that have been continuously
plaguing this world. The success or failure of our
efforts to provide such answers will, without any
doubt, affect the quality of life of the whole of the
twenty-first century. It is in this spirit that my
delegation wishes to provide its contribution to the
success of the deliberations, held under the very special
circumstances of the present session of the General
Assembly.


"
56,2001,KWT,"﻿On behalf of the State of Kuwait, it
gives me pleasure to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo,
and his friendly country, the Republic of Korea, on his
election as President of the fifty-sixth session of the
General Assembly. The office he holds undoubtedly
carries enormous responsibility. My delegation offers
him all the support and cooperation he needs to fulfil
his mandate. I wish here to pay tribute to his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his efficient
stewardship of the last session of the Assembly.
Let me take this opportunity to warmly
congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan, jointly
with the United Nations, on the well-deserved award of
the Nobel Peace Prize, and on his unprecedented early
re-election to a second term. The renewal of Mr.
Annan’s mandate by the international community
reflects deep confidence in his character and
capabilities, in addition to recognition of his past
record. We look forward to continuing to see him bring
into play his creative perspective in addressing a whole
array of complete and interrelated issues facing our
world.
Many of the questions and challenges facing our
countries nowadays involve implications and risks that
cut across national borders of sovereign countries. It is
little wonder that our world has become a smaller
planet where geographical boundaries, cultural
diversity, economic status and ethnic multiplicity have
become lesser factors in shielding communities against
global influences and, by the same token, have
provided larger platforms for interaction with others.
The fact that the world community is now seized with
fighting terrorism is perhaps yet further compelling and
clear evidence of the deep interaction among and
complexity of States’ interests and concerns. The
strong condemnation of the heinous terrorist acts
committed against the United States of America on 11
September 2001 reflects the international community’s
recognition that the real target of that assault is the
political, economic and social stability of the world
order. Indeed, those attacks affected, without
discrimination, virtually all nation States, all
continents, all civilizations, all religions and all races.
Kuwait, for its part, has had a long-standing and
firm position of total and unequivocal condemnation of
terrorism, irrespective of its form or manifestation.
Thus, only hours after the commission of those
criminal acts, which contravene and violate every
religious concept and every cultural and humanitarian
value system, the Government and people of Kuwait
condemned them. I wish to reiterate here our deep
sympathies and condolences to the bereaved families
and to the friendly people of the United States of
America. Let me reaffirm our full backing and support
for all the efforts and measures adopted by the
international coalition to destroy the dens and bases of
terrorism with a view to stamping out its roots, to
apprehend the perpetrators of these criminal acts and to
bring them to justice. In this regard, we call for the
completion of work on the development of a rigorous
international legal system with which all countries of
the world would comply in good faith to eradicate this
evil.
In compliance with Security Council resolution
1373 (2001), Kuwait has enacted specific measures to
plug any loopholes that might be abused in charitable
fund-raising activities and to ensure that any charity
asset is used solely and exclusively for its original
5

legitimate purposes. Our competent authorities are now
in the process of taking further enforcement measures
to ensure universal and strict compliance.
At a time when we condemn all acts of terrorism,
we have been truly surprised to hear some voices that
have started to mount intense and relentless campaigns
linking terrorism with Islam. Those allegations
represent an obvious mistreatment of and injustice to a
divine faith revealed by God Almighty to humankind to
ensure mercy and compassion on this planet. Islam is a
faith that advocates peace, calls for tolerance, promotes
amity and renounces bigotry and extremism. Suffice it
to cite one verse from The Holy Koran:
“Invite (all) to the Way
Of thy Lord with wisdom
And beautiful preaching” (The Holy Koran,
XVI:125)
Therefore, we really cannot accept these tendencies in
the domestic or international mass media, regardless of
any excuse or pretext. Indeed, it is our common
responsibility to challenge such pernicious campaigns
in the interest of global social harmony.
An effective fight against terrorism requires
maximum international cooperation and coordination.
It also demands a soul-searching review of our
political, economic and social policies and practices in
dealing with current global challenges. The aim is to
deny evil-doers any reason to carry out their terror
schemes to advance their own agendas.
While we stress the importance and relevance of
all United Nations resolutions and instruments relating
to the suppression of terrorism, Kuwait endorses the
call to convene an international conference on
terrorism. A key purpose of that proposed meeting
would be to set out a clear definition of terrorism that
draws a line between terrorism as a phenomenon that
strikes at international peace and security and the right
of peoples to struggle against occupation with a view
to achieving self-determination, in line with the Charter
of the United Nations and the norms of international
law.
Kuwait is in full sympathy with the friendly
people of Afghanistan, who have endured a great and
steady decline in their living conditions for over 20
years. The relentless conflicts and wars that have
afflicted Afghanistan for too long have destroyed the
infrastructure and resources of that country. In response
to the appeal of the Secretary-General seeking
resources to meet the severe humanitarian crisis of the
Afghan people, the Government of Kuwait has
announced a donation of $3 million in support of
international humanitarian relief efforts. Three
shipments of relief aid have also been sent to the
Afghan refugees. These supplies are distributed in
coordination with the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees. Furthermore, back
in Kuwait, we are organizing a public fund-raising
campaign to solicit donations from individuals and
private companies to alleviate the suffering of the
Afghan people. The total yield of that effort now stands
at over $8 million.
With regard to the overall situation in
Afghanistan, Kuwait maintains that international
efforts should be maximized to bring about the long-
awaited peace and security. National reconciliation and
a national coalition Government, elected by the people
of Afghanistan, that represent all factions and ethnic
groups are perhaps the most viable means to ensure the
sustainability of the country and eventually its recovery
of normal status within the region and the world. Only
then will the nation of Afghanistan be able to channel
its energy and resources towards reconstruction and
development.
In the meantime, while we express our deep
regret for the civilian casualties among the Afghan
population, we sincerely hope that the ongoing military
operations against the bastions of terrorism and the
terrorists will cause no injuries to innocent, unarmed
people who are totally powerless and helpless.
Kuwait views the environment as a key common
heritage and destiny that must be preserved for future
generations. The bitter recent experience of the Gulf
region, where two devastating wars took place, has left
wide-scale environmental damage. Against this
background, Kuwait sponsored a draft resolution
submitted to the General Assembly to designate
6 November of each year as the International Day for
Preventing the Exploitation of the Environment in War
and Armed Conflict. Kuwait is grateful that the
resolution was adopted by consensus. It is our hope
that this initiative will help to further promote a deeper
universal awareness of the need to safeguard our
environment, which is the source of human life now
and in the future.
6

The eyes of the world have been fixed for over
one year now on the valiant uprising of the Palestinian
people, which arose as a natural and legitimate
response to the continued Israeli occupation of the
Palestinian territories and to the backtracking of the
Israeli Government from the accords it signed with the
Palestinian side.
The obvious policy of the Government of Israel is
to reject any Palestinian, regional or international
initiative. Instead, it counts as a matter of policy on the
use of force; state terrorism and the creation of faits
accomplis on the ground. It slams every door that is
opened, designs new oppressive measures and triggers
one crisis after another. Its overriding goal is to abort
the peace promise born in Madrid in 1991. Israel’s
barbaric practices, its blatant challenge to all United
Nations resolutions and its excessive and unwarranted
use of lethal force in response to stone-throwing
Palestinians have all combined to create an
overwhelming sense of despair, frustration and gloom
in the Palestinian ranks.
Here one must ponder the hard lessons we have
all learned from similar situations of unalloyed gloom
and doom. It is precisely against this backdrop that the
United Nations, the international community and the
United States in particular, as a co-sponsor of the
Middle East peace process, must assume a special
international responsibility to mount an effective and
meaningful drive to force Israel to fulfil its
undertakings and commitments set forth in its bilateral
agreements with the Palestinian Authority, as well as to
implement Security Council and General Assembly
resolutions, including those relating to the city of
Jerusalem, with a view to preserving its Arab and
Islamic character and its holy religious identity. Kuwait
therefore welcomes the indications of support by the
United States for the establishment of an independent
Palestinian State. We hope that this declared position
will now be translated into concrete steps that will
move the whole peace process forward towards its
long-awaited outcome.
In this context, let me stress that Kuwait will
continue to support our Palestinian brothers and to
provide all possible political and material assistance to
them until they attain all their legitimate political
rights, including the establishment of an independent
Palestinian State on their own territory, with Jerusalem
as its capital. In the same vein, Israel must
unconditionally withdraw from the Syrian Arab Golan
and the Lebanese Shab’a farms.
The main objective of Kuwait’s foreign policy is
to consolidate security and stability throughout the
Arabian Gulf region. This goal will remain unmet
unless and until Iraq implements all relevant Security
Council resolutions. It is, indeed, regrettable that the
Government of Iraq persists in its allegations that it has
carried out all its obligations under those resolutions.
In addition, that Government continues to pursue its
long-standing hostile practices and policies towards
Kuwait in order to heighten regional tension and to
destabilize security and peace. Kuwait has repeatedly
drawn the attention of the Security Council and the
Secretary-General to the non-peaceful intentions of
Iraq, as exemplified by the recurrent threats made to
Kuwait’s security and sovereignty by many high-level
Iraqi Government officials. Kuwait has also called on
the Security Council to bring pressure to bear on the
Iraqi Government so that it will honour all its
obligations and thereby make it possible to lift the
sanctions affecting the brotherly people of Iraq and to
permit that country to reclaim its normal status as an
active member regionally and internationally.
When we discuss here the suffering of children,
women and the elderly, Kuwait cannot but recall its
own excruciating experience, endured over the past
decade, relating to the question of Kuwaiti and third-
country prisoners and hostages. In fact, this is a key
obligation that Iraq has so far failed to fulfil. This issue
remains a top national priority for the Government and
people of Kuwait.
The humanitarian nature of this long-running
issue — the anguish that it is causing to the immediate
families of the prisoners and to our entire
population — means that resolution of the problem
cannot be delayed any longer. The Government of Iraq
alone bears responsibility for the lack of any
meaningful progress in implementing the relevant
Security Council resolutions. Those resolutions
demand, inter alia, that Iraq cooperate with the
International Committee of the Red Cross and the high-
level Coordinator, Ambassador Yuli Vorontsov, who
was appointed by the Secretary-General to facilitate the
return of those prisoners and hostages. It is clear that
the Government of Iraq is insensitive to the
humanitarian dimension of this matter. This
insensitivity is borne out by its insistence on
boycotting the meetings of the ad hoc Tripartite
7

Commission and its Technical Subcommittee since it
walked away from those meetings for unjustifiable
political reasons in January 1999. Let me also reiterate
our call to Iraq to return our stolen property, in
particular the State of Kuwait archives and other
official documents.
Over the past few years, the world economic
scene has undergone remarkable changes. We have
seen the emergence of several new economic
phenomena created by the revolution in information
technology and the immense scientific progress in
communications and trade. These changes and
phenomena have made it imperative for many
countries, especially the developing nations, to
introduce drastic changes to their economic plans and
structures in an attempt to benefit from the globalized
economy with a view to ensuring development and
progress for their societies. Despite the promise of
substantial benefits as a result of policies to liberalize
world trade and eliminate customs barriers, we still
have to make a concerted effort in order to make the
globalization process a positive force that benefits all
the peoples of the world. This will require the drawing
up of regional and international guidelines and
standards that protect the nascent economies of the
developing nations from economic turbulence and
crises that might otherwise have an adverse impact on
the living conditions of their peoples.
In the meantime, the developed countries and the
international financial institutions should double their
financial aid to the developing countries in order to
enable them to strengthen the underpinnings of their
economic structures. In the long term, this will help to
establish more balanced economic relations built on
mutual benefit and common interest. With that in mind,
Kuwait is pursuing a steadfast policy of support for
developmental projects in many developing countries.
Most recently, Kuwait has contributed $1 million to the
fund established by the Secretary-General to combat
the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
On a parallel track, Kuwait is contributing to the
funding of many developmental programmes and
projects in the developing countries through
international and regional financial institutions, as well
as through many public Kuwaiti charitable
organizations. This philanthropy is motivated by a
sense of common social responsibility and social
interdependence — values that are embedded in the
traditions of our Islamic faith.
Let me close by saying that we look forward to
participating actively in the forthcoming celebrations
of the Year of Dialogue among Civilizations.
Hopefully, this will turn out to be another event that
underscores our determination to promote and
consolidate the concepts of civilized tolerance and
understanding among our nations and peoples, who all
yearn to live free of self-inflicted conflicts and to enjoy
a prosperous life in which good and virtuous human
tendencies prevail as a basis for international relations.
